
by a capillary tube. The motion produced by the diaphragm's
The space between the inner and outer shells is known as
expansion and contraction is amplified through a lever and
the annular or bypass jacket. Two paths are open to the flow
gear arrangement. The gear varies the electrical value of the
of oil through a cooler. From the inlet, it can flow halfway
indicating circuit, which in turn, is reflected on the indicator in
around the bypass jacket, enter the core from the bottom,
the cockpit. This type of indicating system replaces long fluid-
and then pass through the spaces between the tubes and out
filled tubing lines with an almost weightless piece of wire.
to the oil tank. This is the path the oil follows when it is hot
enough to require cooling. As the oil flows through the core.
Oil Temperature Indicator
it is guided by baffles that force the oil to travel back and
In dry-sump lubricating systems, the oil temperature bulb
forth several times before it reaches the core outlet. The oil
may be anywhere in the oil inlet line between the supply
can also pass from the inlet completely around the bypass
tank and the engine. Oil systems for wet-sump engines have
jacket to the outlet without passing through the core. Oil
the temperature bulb located where it senses oil temperature
follows this bypass route when the oil is cold or when the
after the oil passes through the oil cooler. In either system. the
core is blocked with thick, congealed oil.
bulb is located so that it measures the temperature of the oil
before it enters the engine's hot sections. An oil temperature
Oil Cooler Flow Control Valve
gauge in the cockpit is connected to the oil temperature bulb
As discussed previously, the viscosity of the oil varies with
by electrical leads. The oil temperature is indicated on the
its temperature. Since the viscosity affects its lubricating
gauge. Any malfunction of the oil cooling system appears
properties, the temperature at which the oil enters an engine
as an abnormal reading.
must be held within close limits. Generally, the oil leaving
an engine must be cooled before it is recirculated Obviously,
Oil Cooler
the amount of cooling must be controlled if the oil is to return
The cooler. either cylindrical or elliptical shaped. consists
to the engine at the correct temperature. The oil cooler flow
of a core enclosed in a double-walled shell. The core is built
control valve determines which of the two possible paths the
of copper or aluminum tubes with the tube ends formed to
oil takes through the oil cooler. [Figure 6-12]
a hexagonal shape and joined together in the honeycomb
effect. (Figure 6-11] The ends of the copper tubes of the
There are two openings in a flow control valve that fit over
core are soldered, whereas aluminum tubes are brazed or
the corresponding outlets at the top of the cooler. When the
mechanically joined. The tubes touch only at the ends so
oil is cold. a bellows within the flow control contracts and lifts
that a space exists between them along most of their lengths.
a valve from its seat. Under this condition, oil entering the
This allows oil to flow through the spaces between the tubes
cooler has a choice of two outlets and two paths. Following
while the cooling air passes through the tubes.
the path of least resistance, the oil flows around the jacket
and out past the thermostatic valve to the tank. This allows
the oil to warm up quickly and, at the same time, heats the
Outlet from bypass jacket
Inlet from engine
oil in the core. As the oil warms up and reaches its operating
temperature, the bellows of the thermostat expand and closes
the outlet from the bypass jacket. The oil cooler flow control
Baffles
valve, located on the oil cooler, must now flow oil through the
core of the oil cooler. No matter which path it takes through
the cooler, the oil always flows over the bellows of the
Outlet from core
thermostatic valve. As the name implies, this unit regulates
the temperature by either cooling the oil or passing it on to
the tank without cooling, depending on the temperature at
which it leaves the engine.
Surge Protection Valves
When oil in the system is congealed, the scavenger pump
may build up a very high pressure in the oil return line. To
prevent this high pressure from bursting the oil cooler or
blowing off the hose connections, some aircraft have surge
Bypass jacket
Core
protection valves in the engine lubrication systems. One type
of surge valve is incorporated in the oil cooler flow control
valve; another type is a separate unit in the oil return line.
Figure 6-11. Oil cooler.
[Figure 6-12]
6-10