
Theoretical Priors On Modified Growth Parametrisations
'Yong-Seon Song, Lukas Hollenstein, Gabriela Caldera-Cabral and 'Kazuya Koyama
Institute of Cosmology & Gravitation Dennis Sciama Building,
University of Portsmouth Portsmouth PO1 3FX, United Kingdom
Département de Physique Théorique, Université de Genève,
24 Quai Ernest Ansermet, 1211 Genève 4. Switzerland
(Dated: October 30, 2018)
Next generation surveys will observe the large-scale structure of the Universe with unprecedented
accuracy. This will enable us to test the relationships between matter over-densities, the curvature
perturbation and the Newtonian potential Any large-distance modification of gravity or exotic
nature of dark energy modifies these relationships as compared to those predicted in the standard
smooth dark energy model based on General Relativity. In linear theory of structure growth such
modifications are often parameterised by virtue of two functions of space and time that enter the
relation of the curvature perturbation to, first, the matter over- density, and second, the Newtonian
potential. We investigate the predictions for these functions in Brans-Dicke theory, clustering dark
energy models and interacting dark energy models. We find that each theory has a distinct path in
the parameter space of modified growth. Understanding these theoretical priors on the parameter-
isations of modified growth is essential to reveal the nature of cosmic acceleration with the help of
upcoming observations of structure formation
PACS numbers: draft
I. INTRODUCTION
neither phenomenologically nor theoretically. Gravity
on cosmological scales can be modified to accelerate the
cosmic expansion without dark energy. The degeneracy
Our understanding of the laws of physics we gained on
between GR and modified gravity (MG) models in the
Earth has already been challenged by cosmological obser-
background expansion history is broken by the growth
vations of the formation of galaxies and the accelerated
history of structure formation Any departure from the
expansion of the Universe In order to establish a
growth history in sDE is probed by two functions ex-
cosmological standard model without inconsistencies be-
pressing new degrees of freedom: the mass screening, Q.
tween observations and known physics, it is unavoidable
changes the relationship between the curvature pertur-
either to assume the presence of as yet undetected dark
bation and the matter over-densities, while the effective
materials filling 95% of the energy of the Universe, or
anisotropic stress, n. alters the relationship between the
to modify some of the fundamental laws of physics such
curvature perturbation and the Newtonian potential.
as Einstein's General Relativity. The information on the
Here we study whether the possible detection of non-
underlying physics of the Universe is provided by look-
trivial Q and 77 can be considered as a probe of the break-
ing at the formation of the large scale structure (LSS)
down of the sDE model at cosmological scales. We show
of matter in the Universe. While current observations
that non-trivial Q and " functions are also induced in
have revealed the breakdown of our knowledge of physics
on cosmological scales, the future observation of the LSS
other GR models via clustering of dark energy or inter-
will provide a clue to reveal the nature of the late-time
actions between dark energy and dark matter. GR will
cosmic acceleration: which part of our physical picture
be confirmed (or excluded) by looking at the relation be-
should be modified - matter or gravity, and how it is
tween Q and n. not merely by a departure of Q and/or
modified 32
n from unity. We find that both MG models 33 34
and exotic GR models 35 provide unique distinguish-
The current standard cosmological model was estab-
able trajectories that are well presented in the plane of
lished based upon unknown dark materials and the va-
two transformed parameters: = + 1/n)/2 param-
lidity of General Relativity (GR) on cosmological scales.
eterises the relation between the lensing potential and
We call this standard model smooth dark energy (sDE). It
matter over-densities and 11 = Q/n represents the re-
consists of the following energy components: 5% baryons
lation between the Newtonian potential and the matter
as described by the standard model of particle physics
over-densities. We examine these parameters in various
and 95% of unobserved dark particles - 20% of collision-
models and show that each theory has a distinct path
less dark matter, fitting galaxy formation and the peaks
on the plane of those parameters. The understanding of
in the spectrum of cosmic microwave background (CMB)
these theoretical priors is essential to reveal the nature of
anisotropies, and 75% dark energy explaining the cosmic
the cosmic acceleration from future structure formation
acceleration, described by a perfect fluid that is homo-
observations
geneous (smooth) on sub-horizon scales. It is difficult to
This paper is organised as follows. In section II we
accept dark energy as a standard building block of energy
introduce the smooth dark energy (sDE) model and the
components of the Universe as it is not yet supported
modified growth parameters Q and n. Then we investi-