
8/15/19
AIM
FIG 5-3-4
Holding Pattern Entry Procedures
STANDARD PATTERN
(c)
(a)
(b)
(c)
NO WIND
3. Entry Procedures. Holding protected
directly to the fix and turn to follow the holding
airspace is designed based in part on pilot compliance
pattern.
with the three recommended holding pattern entry
(d) While other entry procedures may enable
procedures discussed below. Deviations from these
the aircraft to enter the holding pattern and remain
recommendations, coupled with excessive airspeed
within protected airspace, the parallel, teardrop and
crossing the holding fix, may in some cases result in
direct entries are the procedures for entry and holding
the aircraft exceeding holding protected airspace.
recommended by the FAA, and were derived as part
(See FIG 5-3-4.)
of the development of the size and shape of the
(a) Parallel Procedure. When approaching
obstacle protection areas for holding.
the holding fix from anywhere in sector (a), the
(e) Nonstandard Holding Pattern. Fix end
parallel entry procedure would be to turn to a heading
and outbound end turns are made to the left. Entry
to parallel the holding course outbound on the
procedures to a nonstandard pattern are oriented in
nonholding side for one minute, turn in the direction
relation to the 70 degree line on the holding side just
of the holding pattern through more than 180 degrees,
as in the standard pattern.
and return to the holding fix or intercept the holding
4. Timing.
course inbound.
(a) Inbound Leg.
(b) Teardrop Procedure. When approach-
(1) At or below 14,000 feet MSL: 1 minute.
ing the holding fix from anywhere in sector (b), the
teardrop entry procedure would be to fly to the fix,
(2) A bove 14,000 feet MSL: 11/2 minutes.
turn outbound to a heading for a 30 degree teardrop
NOTE-
entry within the pattern (on the holding side) for a
The initial outbound leg should be flown for 1 minute or
period of one minute, then turn in the direction of the
1 1/2 minutes (appropriate to altitude). Timing for
holding pattern to intercept the inbound holding
subsequent outbound legs should be adjusted, as
course.
necessary, to achieve proper inbound leg time. Pilots may
use any navigational means available; i.e., DME, RNAV,
(c) Direct Entry Procedure. When ap-
etc., to ensure the appropriate inbound leg times.
proaching the holding fix from anywhere in
(b) Outbound leg timing begins over/abeam
sector (c), the direct entry procedure would be to fly
the fix, whichever occurs later. If the abeam position
En Route Procedures
5-3-23