
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Overview 43
Operating improvements across all segments brought the Allianz
To make sure that the prerequisites for a sustained improvement
Group back on track towards profitability within a short time.
of competitiveness and value creation are met, we have changed
We are nonetheless aware of the fact that we still have a con-
the rules for the allocation of capital within the Group. On prin-
siderable way to go to reach the profitability targets we have set
ciple, our operating units are held to meet the following condi-
ourselves, particularly in the banking business and also in some
tions in order to receive growth capital. They must:
insurance units. That the progress achieved in the operating
- operate in a profitable market or business segment;
business in 2003 is not fully reflected in our earnings perform-
ance is mainly due to the following influences:
- transform their market position into sustainable creation of
value and become a market leader;
- Restructuring charges at Dresdner Bank amounting to 840
million euros.
-
fit in with the long-term strategic orientation of the Allianz
Group; and
- New tax laws that increased the tax charges in our German
life and health insurance business by 428 million euros.
- be in a position to pay dividends that are at least equal to their
capital costs.
An unscheduled amortization of the activated goodwill of our
South Korean subsidiary amounting to 224 million euros.
For these new requirements, exceptions may apply for a limited
We also made considerable progress in reducing the complexity
period of time, for example for the units we are currently posi-
of our corporate structures. Our activities in marine and avia-
tioning in future growth markets such as China and India, or in
tion insurance were combined in the Allianz Marine & Aviation
turnaround cases.
Group. Structures and workflows at Allianz Global Risks, our in-
In addition, the remuneration systems were more strongly
ternational industrial insurer, and at the Global Equity Platform,
oriented towards our Leadership Values (see page 92 of this An-
an administrative and organizational unit of Allianz Dresdner
nual Report) and towards meeting financial performance objec-
Asset Management. A total of 18 Group companies to which
tives. These are consistent with the increase of net income gen-
we assign no strategic importance were sold, wound up, or, as
erated in excess of capital costs and distributable profits. With
in the case of Advance Bank, reintegrated into existing units.
that, we want to encourage our senior management to work to-
We also reduced our stakes in Münchener Ruckversicherungs-
wards a sustainable increase of the competitiveness and value
Gesellschaft (Munich Re) and Beiersdorf AG. In the course of
creation of the Allianz Group.
2003, we cut our interest in Munich Re from 22.4 percent to
12.4 percent. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we agreed on the
Overview
disposal of most of our interest in Beiersdorf AG: after comple-
2003
2002
tion of the transaction, we only hold 7.4 percent of the share
capital of this company. With these initiatives, we not only re-
Gross premium income
€ bn
85.0
82.7
duced the complexity and the risks of concentration in our equity
Operating revenues from banking
€ bn
6.5
7.6
portfolio but also gained an additional measure freedom for its
Operating revenues from asset
management
€ bn
2.2
2.3
management
Total revenues
€ bn
93.8
92.6
Earnings before taxes and amor-
tization of goodwill
€ bn
3.9
-0.1
Net income
€ bn
1.6
-1.2
Earnings per share
€
4.77
-4.44
Return on equity after taxes
96
6.4
-4.6
, Calculated as net income in percent of average shareholders' equity