
8
AW (EB model)
BCSI model. However, before that, we show in Figs 10
12 the conductivities and the optical integrals for the
AW
original MFLI model.
o
Conductivities (Original MFLI)
with lattice
-40
NS
without lattice
0.2
SC
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
0.1
w in eV
FIG. 9: AW vs the cut-off for the EB model. It remains neg-
O
ative for larger cut-offs. Parameters are the same as before.
0.2
0.6
1
The dot indicates the value of W(oo) = AWK
win eV
Original MFLI
of the lattice (the dashed line in Fig. 9
SC
140
NS
C. Marginal Fermi liquid model
130
a -0.75
For their analysis of the optical integral, Norman and
Pépin³0 introduced a phenomenological model for the self
energy which fits normal state scattering rate measure-
120
O
50
100
ments by ARPES41 It constructs the NS (w) out
r (meV)
of two contributions - impurity scattering and electron-
electron scattering which they approximated phenomeno-
FIG. 10: Top the conductivities in the NS and SCS in the
logically by the marginal Fermi liquid form of aw at small
original MFLI model of Ref 30. We set r = 70 meV, a = 0.75,
frequencies (MFLI model). The total E is
A
= 32meV, we = 71 meV. Note that a' (w) in the SCS
begins at = A Bottom - the behavior of Wk with .
-
(17)
In Fig [10] we plot the conductivities in the NS and the
SCS and Kubo sums WK vs at a = 0.75 showing that
where What is about ~ of the bandwidth, and f(x) = 1
the spectral weight in the SCS is indeed larger than in the
for x < 1 and decreases for I > 1. In Ref 30 f(x) was
NS. In Fig [1] we show the behavior of the optical sums
assumed to scale as 1/x at large x such that " is flat at
W(we) in NS and SCS. The observation here is that only
large w. The real part of ((w) is obtained from Kramers-
~ 75-80% of the Kubo sum is recovered up to the scale of
Krönig relations. For the superconducting state, they
the bandwidth implying that there is indeed a significant
obtained by cutting off the NS expression on the lower
spectral weight well beyond the bandwidth. And in Fig
end at some frequency ws (the analog of wo + A that we
12 we show the behavior of AW(wc). We see that it does
had for EB model):
not change sign and remain positive at all Wc, very much
unlike the BCS case. Comparing the behavior of W (wc)
"(w) = (r + a/w/) - w1)
(18)
with and without a lattice (solid and dashed lines in Fig.
12 we see that the 'finite bandwidth effect just shifts the
where ((x) is the step function. In reality, E" which fits
curve in the positive direction. We also see that the solid
ARPES in the NS has some angular dependence along the
line flattens above roughly half of the bandwidth, i.e., at
Fermi surface42 but this was ignored for simplicity. This
these frequencies AW(we) = AWK. Still, we found that
model had gained a lot of attention as it predicted the
AW continues going down even above the bandwidth
optical sum in the SCS to be larger than in the NS, i.e.,
and truly saturates only at about 2eV (not shown in the
AW > O at large frequencies. This would be consistent
figure) supporting the idea that there is 'more' left to
with the experimental findings in Refs. 8.9 if, indeed,
one
recover from higher frequencies.
identifies AW measured up to leV with AWK.
The rationale for AWK > 0 in the original MFLI
We will show below that the sign of AW in the MFLI
model has been provided in Ref. 30 They argued that
model actually depends on how the normal state results
this is closely linked to the absence of quasiparticle peaks
are extended to the superconducting state and, moreover,
in the NS and their restoration in the SCS state because
will argue that AWK is actually negative if the extension
the phase space for quasiparticle scattering at low ener-
is done such that at O = o the results are consistent with
gies is smaller in a superconductor than in a normal state.