
Radian Group Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued)
VIEs
As a provider of credit enhancement, we have entered into insurance contracts with VIEs and derivative contracts with
counterparties where we have provided credit protection directly on variable interests and, in some cases, obtained the
contractual rights of our counterparties with respect to the VIEs. VIEs include corporations, trusts or partnerships in which
equity investors do not have a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk to finance activities without
additional subordinated financial support.
An entity is considered the primary beneficiary and is required to consolidate a VIE if its variable interest: (i) gives it the
power to most significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE: and (ii) has the obligation to absorb losses or the
right to receive residual benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. For all VIEs in which we have a variable
interest, we determine whether we are the primary beneficiary. In determining whether we are the primary beneficiary, a
number of factors are considered, including the structure of the entity, provisions in our contracts that grant us additional
rights
to influence or control the economic performance of the VIE upon the occurrence of an event of default or a servicer
termination event or the breach of a performance trigger, and our obligation to absorb significant losses. Due to the continued
deterioration of the performance of many of our financial guaranty transactions, the breach of these performance tests or other
events giving rise to our right to influence or control the economic performance of the VIE could occur. When we obtain
control rights, we perform an analysis to reassess our involvement with these VIEs to determine whether we have become the
primary beneficiary.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Our estimated fair value measurements are intended to reflect the assumptions market participants would use in pricing
an asset or liability based on the best information available Assumptions include the risks inherent in a particular valuation
technique (such as a pricing model) and the risks inherent in the inputs to the model. Changes in economic conditions and
capital market conditions, including but not limited to. credit spread changes, benchmark interest rate changes, market volatility
and declines in the value of underlying collateral, could cause actual results to differ materially from our estimated fair value
measurements We define fair value as the current amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In the event that our investments or derivative
contracts were sold, commuted, terminated or settled with a counterparty or transferred in a forced liquidation, the amounts
received or paid may be materially different from those determined in accordance with the accounting standard regarding fair
value measurements Differences may also arise between our recorded fair value and the settlement or termination value with a
counterparty based upon consideration of information that may not be available to another market participant. Those
differences, which may be material, are recorded as transaction realized gains/(losses) in our consolidated statements of
operations in the period in which the transaction occurs.
We have included the additional disclosures required by the update to the accounting standard regarding fair value
measurements and disclosures pertaining to the reconciliation of Level III fair value measurements. See Note 5 for additional
information
In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued an update to the accounting standard regarding
fair value measurements and disclosure. This update changes the language used to describe the requirements in GAAP for
measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments: (i) clarify the FASB's
intent about the application of existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements; and (ii) change a particular
principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The
amendments in this update do not require additional fair value measurements and are not intended to establish valuation
standards or affect valuation practices outside of financial reporting. We adopted this standard effective January 1, 2012. The
adoption of this update did not have a significant impact on our fair value measurements. Additional disclosures regarding
unobservable market inputs related to our Level III instruments required under this update are presented in Note 5.
When determining the fair value of our liabilities, we are required to incorporate into the fair value of those liabilities an
adjustment that reflects our own non-performance risk. Our CDS spread is an observable quantitative measure of our non-
performance risk and is used by typical market participants to determine the likelihood of our default. As our CDS spread
tightens or widens, it has the effect of increasing or decreasing, respectively, the fair value of our liabilities with a
corresponding impact on our results of operations.
182