
identifies speech turns, and an analyzer of nonver-
8. J-M. Van Thong et al., "SpeechBot: A Speech Recog-
bal cues based on video analysis to rapidly review
nition-Based Audio Indexing System for the Web,"
records of human interaction.
Proc. 6th RIAO Conf. (Content-Based Multimedia
Information Access), Center for the Advanced Study
of Information Systems, Paris, 2000, pp. 106-115.
M
ultimedia data introduces several challenges
9. B. Logan and A. Salomon, "A Music Similarity Func-
to knowledge management systems, includ-
tion Based on Signal Analysis," Proc. IEEE Int'l
ing the uncertainties associated with media
Conf. Multimedia and Expo, IEEE Press, Piscataway,
analyzers and the need for good scalability and
N.J., 2001, pp. 952-955.
effective user interfaces. Architectures capable of
10. J. Ashley and M. Flickner et al., "The Query by
handling system complexity will also play a crucial
Image Content (QBIC) System," Proc. ACM Sigmod
role in deploying multimedia-based KM solutions.
Conf., ACM Press, New York, 1995, p. 475.
Nonetheless, the prospects for fully exploiting
11. E.W. Brown et al., "Towards Speech as a Knowledge
multimedia content are promising. The experience
Resource," IBM Systems J., vol. 40, no. 4, 2001, pp.
gained in developing multimedia retrieval systems
985-1001.
such as SpeechBot shows that even with current lim-
12. A. Waibel al., "Meeting Browser: Tracking and Sum-
itations in speech recognition technology, analyzers
marizing Meetings," Proc. DARPA Broadcast News
can achieve good performance when searching mul-
Transcription and Understanding Workshop, Morgan
timedia sources. Given current trends in audio and
Kaufmann, Lansdowne, Va., 1998, pp. 281-286.
video analysis, multimedia storage and distribution
over the Internet, developments in XML represen-
Pedro J. Moreno is a senior member of the techni-
tations, and integration with knowledge portals, we
cal staff at Compaq Computer Corp. Cambridge
expect multimedia data to become truly pervasive
Research Laboratory. His research interests are
and as important, if not more so, than textual
multimedia indexing, speech recognition, and
sources in KM systems.
applications of machine learning. He received a
PhD in electrical and computer engineering from
Carnegie Mellon University. He is a member of the
References
IEEE and ESCA. Contact him at pedro.moreno@
1. G. Salton and M.J. McGill, Introduction to Modern
compaq.com.
Information Retrieval, McGraw-Hill, New York,
1983.
J-M. Van Thong is a senior member of the techni-
2. L.R. Rabiner and B.H. Juang, Fundamentals of
cal staff at Compaq Computer Corp. Cambridge
Speech Recognition, Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle
Research Laboratory. His research interests are
River, N.J., 1993.
speech recognition, multimedia indexing, and user
3. J.S. Garafolo, C.G.P. Auzanne, and E.M. Voorhees,
interfaces. He received a PhD in computer science
"The TREC Spoken Document Retrieval Track: A
from the Pierre and Marie Curie University in
Success Story," Proc. 6th RIAO Conf. (Content-
Paris. Contact him at jm.vanthong@compaq.com.
Based Multimedia Information Access), Center for
the Advanced Study of Information Systems, Paris,
Beth Logan is a member of the technical staff at
2000, pp. 1-20.
Compaq Computer Corp. Cambridge Research
4. M.G. Brown et al., "Open-Vocabulary Speech Index-
Laboratory. Her research interests are acoustic mod-
ing for Voice and Video Mail Retrieval," Proc. ACM
eling and indexing of speech and music. She received
Multimedia, ACM Press, New York, 1996, pp. 307-
a PhD in electrical engineering from the University
316.
of Cambridge. She is a member of the IEEE. Con-
5. F. Kubala et al., "Integrated Technologies for Index-
tact her at beth.logan@compaq.com.
ing Spoken Language," Comm. ACM, vol.43, no. 2,
2000, pp. 48-56.
Gareth J.F. Jones is a lecturer in the Department of
6. H.D. Wactlar et al., "Lessons Learned from Building
Computer Science, University of Exeter. His
a Terabyte Digital Video Library," Computer, Feb.
research interests include multimedia, cross-lan-
1999, pp. 66-73.
guage, and context-aware retrieval. He received a
7. S. Srinivasan and D. Petkovic, "Phonetic Confusion
PhD in electrical and electronic engineering from
Matrix-Based Spoken Document Retrieval," Proc.
the University of Bristol. He is a member of the
23rd Int'l Conf. Information Retrieval, ACM Press,
Institute of Electrical Engineers. Contact him at
New York, 2000, pp. 81-87.
G.J.F.Jones@exeter.ac.uk.
66
Computer