
(E) FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
(i) Functional and presentation currency
Both the functional and presentation currency of the Company and its Australian subsidiaries is Australian dollars (A$).
(ii) Transactions and balances
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the exchange
rates ruling at the date of the transaction Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
translated at the rate of exchange at the reporting date.
All exchange differences in the consolidated financial report are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
(F) OPERATING SEGMENTS
An operating segment is a component of an entity that engages in business activities from which it may earn
revenues and incur expenses (including revenues and expenses relating to transactions with other components
of the same entity), whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity's chief operating decision maker
to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance and for which
discrete financial information is available This includes start up operations which are yet to earn revenues.
Management will also consider other factors in determining operating segments such as the existence of a line
manager and the level of segment information presented to the board of directors
Operating segments have been identified based on the information provided to the chief operating decision
makers - being the executive management team.
The Consolidated Entity aggregates two or more operating segments when they have similar economic
characteristics
Operating segments that meet the quantitative criteria as prescribed by AASB 8 are reported separately. However,
an operating segment that does not meet the quantitative criteria is still reported separately where information
about the segment would be useful to users of the financial statements.
Information about other business activities and operating segments that are below the quantitative criteria are
combined and disclosed in a separate category for "all other segments"
(G) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-
term deposits that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk
of changes in value.
For the purposes of the Statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents
as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are included within interest bearing loans
and borrowings in the current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
(H) TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Trade and other receivables, which generally have 30-60 day terms, are recognised initially at fair value and
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less an allowance for impairment
Collectibility of trade and other receivables is reviewed on an ongoing basis. Individual debts that are known to
be uncollectible are written off when identified An impairment allowance is recognised when there is objective
evidence that the Consolidated Entity will not be able to collect the receivable. Financial difficulties of the debtor,
default payments or debts more than 60 days overdue are considered objective evidence of impairment. The
amount of the impairment loss is the receivable carrying amount compared to the present value of estimated
future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
60
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2011