
MANAGED NETWORK SERVICES
In today's networked world. the ability to
Rescue 21 will provide emergency
leverage the power of information and
communications along 95,000 miles of
securely access critical cyber assets and
coastline and waterways. Beyond
infrastructures can spell the difference
managing networked communications.
between success and failure. Now more
CACI will install high-powered, direction-
than ever. technological supremacy.
finding technologies to help the Coast
operations proficiency, and performance
Guard rapidly pinpoint and respond to
excellence are paramount And mistakes
distress signals within 20 miles of shore.
and security breaches can be disastrous.
By leveraging existing network assets,
With national defense and vital business
CACI is helping the Coast Guard save
operations on the line, it's never been more
lives, while saving money.
important to ensure that information and
infrastructure are there when needed and
DISA-Honing the Warfighter's Edge
that processes will continue without
Whether at peace or war. information
interruption That's where CACI's
systems that support warfighters must
Managed Network Services come in.
continue to function effectively-even in
the face of cyber attack. For more than a
At CACI, we provide high-performance
decade, CACI has provided the Defense
reliable. and secure networks for
Information Systems Agency with
everything from highly classified
extensive network support and is now
intelligence data to unclassified civilian
playing a vital role in the agency's
and commercial environments From
Information Assurance strategy. The
simulating network performance to
Defense Information System Network
implementing state-of-the-art information
Global Solutions effort is geared toward
security, our global network services
detection and protection against threats, as
handle every requirement start-to-finish
well as response to any attack. CACI's
24x7. no matter how complex. What's
high-quality network services ensure
more. our Information Assurance Services
integrity and continuity of service for
enable the right people to receive the right
DISA's worldwide command, control. and
information at the right time in the right
communications systems that support the
format-with strong. defensive measures
nation's armed forces-any time,
that protect information from threats
anywhere, under any conditions
outside the organization, as well as within
National Defense University-
Throughout fiscal year 2003. CACI network
Honoring Top Achievers
services worked to ensure connectivity and
To advance their education in national
to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and
security and military strategies, hundreds
authenticity of information and critical infra-
of defense and civilian leaders attend the
structure for customers around the globe.
prestigious Information Resources
Management College of the National
U.S. Coast Guard-Saving Lives
Defense University. Now. those leaders are
While Saving Money
eligible for a new academic honor: the
Search and rescue is one of the Coast
CACI Distinguished Graduate Award.
Guard's oldest missions. Toward that end,
which acknowledges the top student in the
the Guard operates numerous shore
university's Information Assurance certifi-
stations. cutters, aircraft, and boats-all
cation program. Honorees are recognized
linked by a powerful communications
for academic and intellectual excellence
network For years, CACI has been
and are expected to take strong leadership
instrumental in managing the Guard's data
roles in protecting our nation's critical
network and is now extending its expertise
information systems for years to come.
to help modernize the National Distress
and Response System. also known as
"Rescue 21." When fully operational,
ANNUAL REPORT 2003