
Investment Banking
Topics
SMFG consolidates the resources from the Investment Banking
Expansion of Securities Businesses in Overseas
Unit of SMBC and SMBC Nikko Securities and other Group
Markets
companies to assist its clients with their business develop-
The SMBC's subsidiaries, SMBC Nikko Capital Markets
ment and enhancement of their corporate value by providing
Limited (UK) and SMBC Nikko Securities America, Inc. (US).
optimized solutions for the needs of its clients in areas such as
have begun and are expanding their securities business
fund-raising and asset management, M&A. risk-hedging. and
operations in London and New York, respectively. SMBC
payment and settlement
Nikko Securities wholly owned subsidiaries in Hong Kong
and Shanghai also commenced securities business and M&A
As the businesses of our corporate clients become further
advisory service operations in January 2011.
globalized and the number of investors increases SMBC Nikko
Securities has began its operations of M&A advisory services,
underwriting bonds and brokerage services (for Japanese
Limited
stocks) at its overseas offices. We plan to further globalize our
SMILD
SMRC
Limited
-
Inc
operations. and respond appropriately and timely to the sophis-
ticated financial needs of our clients
Collaboration with SMBC Nikko Securities
PT Mikk Induresia
As of April 1. 2011. Nikko Cordial Securities, which became
a wholly owned subsidiary of SMBC on October 1. 2009,
June 30, 2011
changed its corporate name to SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. As
the core securities firm for the Group, it has expanded its retail
Environmental Business
and wholesale businesses by closely working with SMBC.
SMBC established its Environmental Products Department
In the league tables published by Thomson Reuters for fiscal
in October 2007 to promote its environmental businesses
2010. SMFG was ranked fourth in the M&A advisory services
It also developed a cross-organizational "Growing Industrial
category for publicly announced mergers involving Japanese
Cluster Project Team" in July 2010 to promote businesses
companies with a market share of 19.2% We placed fifth for
associated with four growing industrial sectors. It cross-
underwriting amount for the "Japanese Corporate Bonds"
organizationally promotes efforts aimed at expanding identi-
category (market share of 16.6%). We continue to strengthen
fying and creating mid- to long-term business opportunities
the cooperation between SMBC Nikko Securities and SMBC
for our clients by cooperating with industries, government
and to respond to the diverse needs of our clients for raising
and universities, and collecting information from the domestic
capital from the market. cross-border M&A transactions and
and international networks
securitization
As a result of these measures, a CDM* project. which
we supported in Singapore for the trading of emission credits
became the country's first such large project to be registered
Number of referrals by SMBC to SMBC Nikko
by the United Nations, and we provided financing by utiliz-
Securities
ing the Nippon Export and Investment Insurance ("NEXI") for
1,000
Investment Management = Investment banking businesses
Vietnam's first hydroelectric power generation business by the
800
private sector. These initiatives contributed to our nomination
for the award of "Sustainable Bank of the Year 2011 (Cross-
600
Regional category)." organized by the Financial Times and the
400
International Finance Corporation.
200
* The four growing industrial sectors are: the "Environment," "New
Energy." "Water" and *Natural Resources."
O
2009
2010
2010
2010
2010
2011
"Clean Development Mechanism"
Oct-Dec
Jan.Mar.
Apr-Jun.
Jul-Sept
Oct.-Dec.
Jan-Mar
Underwriting amount for
"Japanese Corporate Bonds" Market share*
SMBC Nikko Securities
SMBC Nikko Securities
16.6%
6.2%
1st
FY2009
FY2010
Fiscal 2013 (Target)
'Source: Thomson Reuters
Underwriting amount for Japanese Corporate Bonds'
Information contained in this document for the period prior to September 2009 is
based on the information provided by the former Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.
SMFG 2011
13