
viewpoints
the author is interested in receiving roy-
Moving Forward
alties). And of course the content is also
OERs have the
Our experience with OERs over the past
available for free on the Connexions
eight years has convinced us that the
Web site, which will keep the commer-
potential to aid in
movement has real potential to enable
cial costs from rising above what the
the democratization
a revolutionary advancement of the
value added justifies.
world's standard of education at all lev-
of the world of
els. Moreover, as it grows and spreads,
Roadblocks on the Horizon?
knowledge.
the movement will have a large impact
While the OER movement is rapidly
on the academic world itself. It prom-
gaining speed, there are a number of
ises to disintermediate the scholarly
potential roadblocks that must be care-
publishing industry, in the process ren-
fully navigated for it to prosper.
dering some current business models
Technology fragmentation. If the OER
unviable and inventing new viable ones.
community does not adopt common
It will also change the way we conceive
or compatible content and repository
and other open-authorship projects
of and pursue authorship, teaching,
standards, then it risks fragmenting the
suggest they are threatened by the pro-
peer review, promotion, and tenure.
movement into a number of isolated is-
liferation of massive amounts of low-
And by encouraging contributions from
lands of incompatible content. This will
quality material that might swamp the
anyone, anywhere, OERs have the po-
unfortunately discourage global collab-
information environment and prove
tential to aid in the democratization of
oration, reduce the overall economy of
impossible to navigate. Traditional
the world of knowledge.
scale of the enterprise, and thus devalue
publishers, as well as institution-based
A concerted effort from the commu-
any financial sustaining opportunities.
OER projects like MIT OpenCourse-
nity of authors, instructors, students,
We must pay attention to the lessons
Ware, employ a careful internal review
and software developers (that is, by
learned by groups like the World Wide
process before their content is made
you) will enable the OER movement to
Web Consortium and its standardiza-
publicly available. However, such a pre-
surmount the challenges on the road
tion and maintenance of the HTML and
publication review cannot scale to keep
to these goals. Fortunately, it's easy to
XML standards.
up with the fast pace of community-
get involved: become an author for an
Intellectual property fragmentation.
based OER development, where mate-
OER project on your favorite topic; con-
Just as with open source software, there
rials may change daily or even hourly.
tribute your out-of-print work SO others
are a number of copyright licenses that
Accept/reject decisions also create an
can build on it and keep it alive; adopt
can be applied to OERs. These various
exclusive rather than inclusive commu-
or remix an open textbook for your next
licenses present a number of compat-
nity culture. And finally, prereview does
course; start or participate in an OER
ibility issues. For instance, there is cur-
not support evaluation of modules and
quality review program; or translate an
rently a debate regarding whether open
courses based on actual student learn-
OER into a new language. Together, we
materials should or should not be com-
ing outcomes. Some promising steps
can change the way the world develops,
mercially usable. Licensing that renders
are being made in this direction. In
disseminates, and uses knowledge.
open materials only noncommercially
one, Connexions recently rolled out
useable promises to protect contribu-
a system of post-publication "lenses"
References
tors from potentially unfair commercial
that are open to an arbitrary number of
1. Baraniuk, R.G. Challenges and opportunities for the
exploitation. A noncommercial license,
third-party reviewers and editorial bod-
open education movement: A Connexions case study.
Chapter in Opening Up Education: The Collective
however, not only limits the spread of
ies. Several universities, companies,
Advancement of Education through Open Technology,
knowledge by complicating the produc-
and professional societies are currently
Open Content, and Open Knowledge, MIT Press, 2008.
2.
"Bookless' textbook study launched at Foothill," Palo
tion of paper books, e-books, CDs and
reviewing content for their lenses (see
Alto Online (May 2008).
DVDs, but also cuts off potential future
cnx.org/lenses).
3. Breck, J. Editor of the special edition on open
education in Educational Technology 47 (Nov.-Dec.
revenues that might sustain non-profit
Success models. While the advantages
2007), 3-5; C. Sidney Burrus, "Connexions: An Open
OER enterprises in the future. Interest-
of remixing and reusing educational
Educational Resource for the 21st Century," 19-23;
Stephen Carson, "The OpenCourseWare Model: High-
ingly, such an anticommercial stance
content are readily apparent (and while
Impact Open Educational Content," 23-26.
authors already consciously and un-
4. Kelty, C.M. Two Bits: The Cultural Significance of Free
is contrary to that of the more estab-
Software. Duke University Press, 2008.
lished open source software world,
consciously remix ideas from myriad
5. Kelty, C.M., Burrus, C.S., and Baraniuk, R.G. Peer
review anew: Three principles and a case study in
which greatly benefits from commercial
different sources as they compose), we
postpublication quality assurance. In Proceedings of
involvement. Where would Linux and
need more OER success models to build
the IEEE 96, (June 2008).
Apache be without the value-adding
upon. We surmise that the lack of a
contributions of for-profit companies
large number of models is due in a large
Richard Baraniuk (richb@rice.edu) is the Victor E.
Cameron Professor in the Electrical and Computer
like Red Hat and IBM, for instance?
part to technological barriers (which
Engineering department at Rice University in Houston, TX.
Quality control. How can OERs pro-
are gradually being overcome) and in a
C. Sidney Burrus (csb@rice.edu) is the Maxfield &
duced in a grass-roots fashion, by people
lesser part to several hundred years of
Oshman Professor Emeritus of Engineering in the
with varying skill levels and degrees, for
academic community dynamics (which
Electrical and Computer Engineering department at Rice
University in Houston, TX.
widely varied reasons, be adequately vet-
are being addressed by community-
ted for quality? The anxieties frequently
organized OER projects like the IEEE's
The authors and Connexions are supported by the William
and Flora Hewlett Foundation, the U.S. National Science
aired about projects like Wikipedia
mentioned earlier).
Foundation, and Rice University.
32
COMMUNICATIONS OF THE ACM
SEPTEMBER 2008
VOL. 51
NO. 9