
Metering valve. A valve on a balloon heater that can be set
O-Ring. A doughnut-shaped packing, usually rubber, used
to allow propane to pass through at a specific rate.
between two moving parts to act as a seal. Balloon heater
and tank valves usually have O-rings between the valve stem
Methanol. A type of alcohol, usually fermented from wood,
and valve bonnet.
required by most balloon manufacturers to be introduced into
propane tanks annually to adsorb, and thus eliminate, small
Orographic. A term pertaining to mountains or anything
quantities of water from the fuel.
caused by mountains, as in orographic wind (wind formed by
mountains) and orographic cloud (a cloud whose existence is
Mildew. A gray or white parasite fungus which, under warm,
caused by disturbed flow of air over and around a mountain
moist conditions, can live on organic dirt found on balloon
barrier).
envelopes. The fungus waste materials attack the coating
on the fabric.
Overtemp (or over temperature). The act of heating the air
inside a hot air balloon envelope beyond the manufacturer's
Mooring. Operation of an unmanned balloon secured to
maximum temperature.
the ground by lines or controlled by anything touching the
ground See Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations,
Oxygen starvation. The condition inside a balloon envelope
part 101.
where all available oxygen has been consumed by the heater
flame and additional burning is impossible since propane
Mouth. The bottom, open end of a hot air balloon envelope.
must have oxygen to burn. In extreme cases, the blast flame
Also called the "throat."
and pilot light flame will extinguish after a long burn or
series of burns and may not relight until the envelope has
MSL. Mean sea level.
"breathed" additional air.
Neutral buoyancy. A condition wherein a balloon is
Parachute top. A deflation system wherein the deflation
weightless and is neither ascending nor descending.
port is sealed with a disc of balloon fabric shaped like a
parachute. Lines attached to the edge of the parachute disc
Nitrogen charging. A technique of adding nitrogen gas to
gather into a single line that may be pulled down by the pilot
propane tanks to increase fuel pressure. Used in place of
in the basket.
temperature to control propane pressure in hot air balloons
during cold weather.
Pibal. Pilot balloon; a small helium-filled balloon sent aloft
to help determine wind direction, velocity, and stability.
Nomogram. Technically, a calculating chart with scales
that contain values of three or more mathematical variables,
Pilot in Command (PIC). The pilot responsible for the
widely used in engineering. In ballooning, a balloon's
operation and safety of an aircraft during flight.
performance chart is a nomogram.
Piezo. (Pronounced pee-ate' zo). A piezoelectric spark
Nonporous. The state of having no pores or openings which
generator that is built into many modern balloon heaters to
will not allow gas to pass through. New hot air balloon fabric
ignite the pilot light.
is nearly nonporous.
Pilot light. A small, continuously burning flame used to
Notice to Airmen (NOTAM). A notice containing
ignite the main "blast" flame of a balloon heater.
information concerning facilities, services, or procedures,
the timely knowledge of which is essential to personnel
Pilotage. Navigation by visual reference to landmarks
concerned with flight operations.
Pinhole. Any small hole in a balloon envelope smaller than
Nylon. The registered name for a polymeric fabric. Most
the maximum dimensions allowed for airworthiness
balloon envelopes are made of nylon.
Porosity. A condition of the envelope fabric that allows hot
OODA Loop. An aeronautical decision-making model
air to escape. Excessive porosity requires increased fuel use
particularly suited to ballooning. Originally devised by Col.
and results in higher envelope temperatures.
John Boyd for use by Air Force combat pilots, it has come
to be widely utilized in the business community. See the
discussion in chapter 1 of this handbook.
G-6