
PART II
ITEM 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
D.
Acquisition of FirstAssist
The Company believes that the risk of loss beyond this maximum
aggregate is remote. The reinsurance arrangement is secured by assets
In November 2011, the Company acquired FirstAssist Group
held in trust. Cash consideration paid to the reinsurer was
Holdings Limited ("FirstAssist") for approximately $115 million in
$190 million. The net effect of this transaction was an after-tax loss of
cash. FirstAssist is based in the United Kingdom and provides travel
$20 million ($31 million pre-tax), primarily reported in other
and protection insurance services that the Company expects will
operating expenses in the Run-off Reinsurance segment.
enhance its individual business in the U.K. and around the world.
In accordance with GAAP, the total purchase price has been allocated
F.
Acquisition of Vanbreda International
to the tangible and intangible net assets acquired based on
management's estimates of their fair values. During 2012, the
On August 31, 2010, the Company acquired 100% of the voting
Company updated its allocation of the purchase price based on
stock of Vanbreda International NV (Vanbreda International), based
additional information Accordingly, the allocation to identifiable
in Antwerp, Belgium for a cash purchase price of $412 million.
intangible assets was decreased by $18 million to $40 million. The
Vanbreda International specializes in providing worldwide medical
allocation to goodwill was increased by $8 million to $64 million.
insurance and employee benefits to intergovernmental and
Subsequent to the segment reporting changes in 2012, goodwill has
non-governmental organizations, including international
been reported in the Global Supplemental Benefits segment.
humanitarian operations, as well as corporate clients. Vanbreda
International's market leadership in the intergovernmental segment
The results of FirstAssist are included in the Company's Consolidated
complements the Company's position in providing global health
Financial Statements from the date of acquisition. The pro forma
benefits primarily to multinational companies and organizations and
effects on total revenues and net income assuming the acquisition had
their globally mobile employees in North America, Europe, the
occurred as of January 1. 2011 were not material to the Company for
Middle East and Asia.
the year ended December 31, 2011.
In accordance with GAAP, the total purchase price has been allocated
to the tangible and intangible net assets acquired based on
E.
Reinsurance of Run-off Workers'
management's estimates of their fair values. Accordingly,
Compensation and Personal Accident
approximately $210 million was allocated to intangible assets,
Business
primarily customer relationships. The weighted average amortization
period is 15 years.
On December 31, 2010, the Company essentially exited from its
Subsequent to the segment reporting changes in 2012, goodwill has
workers' compensation and personal accident reinsurance business by
been allocated to the Commercial operating segment For foreign tax
purchasing retrocessional coverage from a Bermuda subsidiary of
Enstar Group Limited and transferring administration of this business
purposes, the acquisition of Vanbreda International was treated as a
stock purchase. Accordingly, goodwill and other intangible assets will
to the reinsurer. Under the reinsurance agreement, Cigna is
indemnified for liabilities with respect to its workers' compensation
not be amortized for foreign tax purposes but may reduce the
taxability of earnings repatriated to the U.S. by Vanbreda
and personal accident reinsurance business to the extent that these
International
liabilities do not exceed 190% of the December 31, 2010 net reserves.
80
CIGNA CORPORATION - 2012 Form 10-K