
a light pressure against the instrument to drive the spring-
Castings are normally lower in strength and are more brittle
loaded indenter into the material to be tested. The hardness
than a wrought product of the same material. For intricate
reading is instantly indicated on the dial.
shapes or items with internal passages, such as turbine blades,
casting may be the most economical process. Except for
Several typical readings for aluminum alloys are listed in
engine parts, most metal components found on an aircraft
Figure 7-13. Note that the harder the material is, the higher
are wrought instead of cast.
the Barcol number. To prevent damage to the point, avoid
sliding or scraping when it is in contact with the material
All metal products start in the form of casting. Wrought
being tested. If the point should become damaged, it must be
metals are converted from cast ingots by plastic deformation.
replaced with a new one. Do not attempt to grind the point.
For high-strength aluminum alloys, an 80 to 90 percent
reduction (dimensional change in thickness) of the material
Each tester is supplied with a test disk for checking the
is required to obtain the high mechanical properties of a fully
condition of the point. To check the point, press the
wrought structure.
instrument down on the test disk. When the downward
pressure brings the end of the lower plunger guide against
Both iron and aluminum alloys are cast for aircraft uses. Cast
the surface of the disk. the indicator reading should be within
iron contains 6 to 8 percent carbon and silicon.
the range shown on the test disk.
Cast iron is a hard un-malleable pig iron made by casting or
Forging
pouring into a mold. Cast aluminum alloy has been heated
Forging is the process of forming a product by hammering
to its molten state and poured into a mold to give it the
or pressing. When the material is forged below the
desired shape.
recrystallization temperature, it is called cold forged. When
worked above the recrystallization temperature, it is referred
Extruding
to as hot forged. Drop forging is a hammering process that
The extrusion process involves the forcing of metal through
uses a hot ingot that is placed between a pair of formed dies in
an opening in a die, thus causing the metal to take the shape
a machine called a drop hammer and a weight of several tons
of the die opening. The shape of the die will be the cross
is dropped on the upper die. This results in the hot metal being
section of an angle. channel. tube, or some other shape. Some
forced to take the form of the dies. Because the process is
metals, such as lead. tin. and aluminum. may be extruded
very rapid, the grain structure of the metal is altered, resulting
cold: however, most metals are heated before extrusion The
in a significant increase in the strength of the finished part.
main advantage of the extrusion process is its flexibility.
For example, because of its workability, aluminum can be
Casting
economically extruded to more intricate shapes and larger
Melting the metal and pouring it into a mold of the desired
sizes than is practical with other metals.
shape forms casting. Since plastic deformation of the metal
does not occur, no alteration of the grain shape or orientation
Extruded shapes are produced in very simple, as well as
is possible. The cooling rate, the alloys of the metal, and
extremely complex, sections In this process, a cylinder of
the thermal treatment can control the gain size of the metal.
aluminum, for instance. is heated to 750-850 °F and is then
forced through the opening of a die by a hydraulic ram. The
Alloy and Temper
Barcol Number
opening is the shape desired for the cross section of the finished
extrusion The extrusion process forms many structural parts,
1100-O
35
such as channels, angles, T-sections, and Z-sections.
3003-O
42
Aluminum is the most extruded metal used in aircraft.
3003-H14
56
Aluminum is extruded at a temperature of 700-900 °F (371-482
2024-O
60
°C) and requires pressure of up to 80,000 psi (552 MPa). After
extrusion, the product frequently is subjected to both thermal
5052-O
62
and mechanical processes to obtain the desired properties.
5052-H34
75
Extrusion processes are limited to the more ductile materials
6061-T
78
Cold Working/Hardening
2024-T
85
Cold working applies to mechanical working performed at
temperatures below the critical range. It results in a strain
Figure 7-13. Typical Barcol readings for aluminum alloy.
hardening of the metal. In fact, the metal often becomes so
7-29