
AOA
AOA
AOA
Chord line
Flight path
Cart can swing under
wing at riser
attachment point
Center of gravity
Gliding
Level flight
Climbing flight
Figure 6-1. The cart and wing pitch together.
creates a porpoising effect. Gradually increase the
While airborne, you will turn in the same direction
throttle to full to avoid the abrupt porpoising.
of the foot steering control that you push: push right
foot-go right; push left foot-go left.
Clearing Turns
Similar to the pendulum effect with throttle, there
Pilots should perform clearing turns prior to begin-
can also be a swinging pendulum effect during turns.
ning any maneuver and any turns. Proper clearing
For example, if you are in a stabilized right, medium-
procedures combined with proper visual scanning
banked turn (approximately 20 to 45 degrees bank),
techniques are the most effective strategy for colli-
the pendulum is swinging out opposing the lift com-
sion avoidance. The essential idea of the clearing turn
ponent of the wing. If an abrupt left turn is initiated,
is to be certain that the next maneuver is not going
the wing will start to turn but the momentum of the
to proceed into another aircraft's flightpath. Refer to
cart cannot respond as quickly. This results in the pi-
Chapter 9.
lot not coordinating the pendulum effect, and can be
avoided with smoother and less abrupt turns so the
Turning the Powered Parachute
cart can keep up with the wing.
Steering lines run from the foot controls, through a
Feel of the PPC
series of pulleys parallel to the risers and suspension
lines and are connected to the trailing edge of the cor-
The ability to sense a flight condition, without relying
responding side of the wing. The right steering line at
on cockpit instrumentation, is often called "feel of the
the front end is attached to the right steering control
PPC," but senses in addition to "feel" are involved
at the cockpit (either foot or hand control), and the
other end is directly attached to the trailing edge of the
Sounds inherent to flight are an important sense in
right side of the wing. Hence, when you push a foot
developing "feel." The air rushes past the PPC pilot,
steering control, you pull on a steering line and "pull-
who is not typically masked by enclosures When the
down" the trailing edge of the corresponding side of
level of sound increases, it indicates that speed is in-
the wing, which creates drag on that side of the wing's
creasing. Also, the powerplant emits distinctive sound
trailing edge. The drag from the pulled-down trail-
patterns in different conditions of flight as the RPM
ing edge slows down and drops that side's wing, and
is adjusted The sound of the engine in cruise flight
the opposite side of the wing simultaneously pivots
may be different from that in a climb, and different
around the vertical and longitudinal axes in a coor-
again from that in a descent and can aid the pilot in
dinated turn. The PPC is designed to fly straight into
estimating not only the present airspeed but the air-
the relative wind, which is a key factor in the PPC's
speed trend.
ability to automatically perform a coordinated turn.
The sources of actual "feel" are important to the pilot.
[Figure 6-2]
The pilot's own body responds to forces of accelera-
tion. These "G" loads imposed on the cart are also felt
by the pilot. Increased G loads force the pilot down
6-2