
effective use of all available resources: human resources.
Designated pilot examiner (DPE). An individual designated
hardware, and information. Human resource groups include
by the FAA to administer practical tests to pilot applicants.
but are not limited to pilots, dispatchers, cabin crewmembers,
maintenance personnel, and air traffic controllers.
Detonation. The sudden release of heat energy from fuel in
an aircraft engine caused by the fuel-air mixture reaching
Critical angle of attack. The angle of attack at which a wing
its critical pressure and temperature. Detonation occurs as a
stalls regardless of airspeed, flight attitude, or weight.
violent explosion rather than a smooth burning process.
CRM. See crew resource management.
Dew. Moisture that has condensed from water vapor. Usually
found on cooler objects near the ground, such as grass, as
Crossbar. The structural component of the WSC wing that
the near-surface layer of air cools faster than the layers of
holds the leading edges in place.
air above it.
Crosswind. Wind blowing across rather than parallel to
Dewpoint. The temperature at which air reaches a state of
the direction of flight. In a traffic pattern, the crosswind leg
water saturation.
is a flight path at right angles to the landing runway off its
upwind end.
Dihedral. The positive acute angle between the lateral
axis of an airplane and a line through the center of a wing
Crosswind component. The wind component, measured in
or horizontal stabilizer. Dihedral contributes to the lateral
knots. at 90° to the longitudinal axis of the runway.
stability of an aircraft.
Crosswind correction. Correction applied in order to
Directional stability. Stability about the vertical axis of an
maintain a straight ground track during flight when a
aircraft, whereby an aircraft tends to return, on its own. to
crosswind is present.
flight aligned with the relative wind when disturbed from that
equilibrium state. The wing design is the primary contributor
Crosswind landing. Landing made with a wind that is
to directional stability, causing a WSC in flight to align with
blowing across rather than parallel to the landing direction.
the relative wind.
Crosswind takeoffs. Takeoffs made during crosswind
Ditching. Emergency landing in water.
conditions
Double-surface wing. Two pieces of fabric for most of the
CTAF. See Common Traffic Advisory Frequency.
WSC wing which enclose the crossbar; typically used for
higher speed wings.
Datum. An imaginary vertical plane or line from which
all measurements of moment arm are taken. The datum is
Downwind leg. Leg of the traffic pattern flown parallel to the
established by the manufacturer
landing runway, but in a direction opposite to the intended
landing direction.
DECIDE Model. Model developed to help pilots remember
the six-step decision-making process: Detect, Estimate,
DPE. See designated pilot examiner.
Choose, Identify, Do. Evaluate.
Drag. An aerodynamic force on a body acting parallel and
Density altitude. Pressure altitude corrected for variations
opposite to the relative wind. The resistance of the atmosphere
from standard temperature. When conditions are standard,
to the relative motion of an aircraft. Drag opposes thrust and
pressure altitude and density altitude are the same. If the
limits the speed of the aircraft.
temperature is above standard, the density altitude is higher
than pressure altitude. If the temperature is below standard,
Drag coefficient (CD). A dimensionless number used to
the density altitude is lower than pressure altitude. This is an
define the amount of total drag produced by an aircraft.
important altitude because it is directly related to the PPC's
performance.
Drift angle. Angle between heading and track.
Departure leg. The leg of the rectangular traffic pattern
Drift correction. Correction that is applied to counter the
that is a straight course aligned with. and leading from, the
affects of wind on an aircraft's flight and ground track.
takeoff runway.
G-6