
aiming to capture the entire set of metadata require-
How is that benefit influenced by the decision
ments and implement a centralized architecture.
maker role? It would be reasonable to assume that
Metadata quality. The design and initial imple-
a middle-tier manager and a CEO would each
mentation of the metadata layer is only the begin-
benefit, though in different ways; and
ning. As organizations enhance their business
What stages of the decision process benefit most
activities or transition to new ones, information sys-
from metadata? Decision making is a multi-stage
items, the underlying data, and metadata must all be
process where preliminary cycles of elaboration
updated accordingly. Poor-quality metadata can result
and search for data may precede the final deci-
not only from poor analysis of requirements or from
sion. Metadata may affect not only that decision
an invalid design approach but also from the failure to
but the efficiency of preliminary stages of data
detect changes in the business and reflect them in the
exploration as well.
metadata layer. With metadata being at the functional
core of information systems, poor quality might in
Securing organizationwide support is typically the
turn degrade the quality of the data, cause operational
greatest challenge in any successful metadata imple-
failures, and violate information security. To keep
mentation. Such support cannot be achieved without
metadata functional and its quality high, organiza-
identifying and communicating the merits of meta-
tions need to invest in its ongoing administration and
data to the technical community, to business users,
maintenance. Metadata must be constantly updated
and to corporate decision makers alike. Those merits,
to reflect evolving changes in data models, business
however, as well as the drawbacks, have yet to be fully
rules, information flow, end-user configuration, and
explored, and many questions remain to be answered
underlying technology.
before metadata value is fully known.
C
METADATA RESEARCH
REFERENCES
Given these challenges, is metadata implementation
1. Even, A., Shankaranarayanan, G., and Watts, S. Enhancing decision
making with process metadata: Theoretical framework, research tool,
worth the effort? IT/IS researchers and practition-
and exploratory examination. In Proceedings of the 39th Hawaii Inter-
ers understand only metadata's technical merits but
national Conference on System Sciences (HICSS-39) (Kauai, HI, Jan.
not its business benefits, why should business man-
4-7). IEEE Press, Los Alamitos, CA, 2006.
2. Fisher, C., Chengalur-Smith, I., and Ballou, D. The impact of experi-
agers care about metadata? Wouldn't it be reasonable
ence and time on the use of data quality information in decision mak-
for COTS product vendors to focus on technical
ing. Information Systems Research 14, 2 (June 2003), 170-188.
3. Jarke, M., Lenzerini, M., Vassiliou, Y., and Vassiliadis, P. Fundamen-
metadata, designing it exclusively for IT profession-
tals of Data Warehouses. Springer-Verlag, Heidelberg, Germany, 2000.
als while ignoring the business decision makers? The
4. Kimball, R., Reeves, L., Ross, M., and Thornthwaite, W. The Data
answer is not obvious, as the benefits of metadata are
Warehouse Lifecycle Toolkit. Wiley Computer Publishing, New York,
2000.
not yet well known. Recent studies [1, 2, 6] suggest
5. Marco, D. Building and Managing the Meta Data Repository: A Full
that metadata may significantly benefit business
Lifecycle Guide. John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York, 2000.
decision makers, hence, ought to be further explored
6. Nevo, D. and Wand, Y. Organizational memory information systems:
A transactive memory approach. Decision Support Systems 39, 4 (June
by the academic research community.
2005), 549-562.
Data-quality management is a promising area for
7. Sen, A. Metadata management: Past, present, future. Decision Support
Systems 37, 1 (Apr. 2004), 151-173.
metadata [9]. Due to the rapid growth of data volume
8. Shankaranarayanan, G. and Even, A. Managing metadata in data ware-
and complexity, poor data quality represents a grow-
houses: Pitfalls and possibilities. Communications of the AIS 14, 13
ing hazard to information systems. Metadata enables
(Sept. 2004), 247-274.
9. Shankaranarayanan G., Ziad, M., and Wang, R. Managing data qual-
decision makers to gauge data quality and is critical
ity in dynamic decision-making environments: An information prod-
for the administration of processes and security
uct approach. Journal of Database Management 14, 4 (Oct.-Dec.
2003), 14-32.
within decision-support environments (such as a data
10. Vaduva, A. and Vetterli, T. Metadata management for data warehous-
warehouse).
ing: An overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Sys-
Managerial decision making stands to benefit from
tems 10, 3 (Sept. 2001), 273-298.
metadata [1, 2]. Understanding this benefit involves
several questions:
GANESAN SHANKARANARAYANAN (gshankar@bu.edu) is an
assistant professor in the Boston University School of Management,
Boston, MA.
What types of decision making are most likely to
ADIR EVEN (adir@bu.edu) is a Ph.D. student in the Information
benefit from metadata? Metadata is likely to be
Systems Department at the Boston University School of Management,
useful in rational, data-driven, analytical decision
Boston, MA.
making scenarios. Not clear is whether it provides
similar benefit in decision processes that are more
intuitive or politically charged;
2006 ACM 0001-0782/06/0200 $5.00
94
February 2006/Vol. 49, No. 2 COMMUNICATIONS OF THE ACM