
NAVWEPS 00-80T-80
STABILITY AND CONTROL
to zero. When an aircraft is in equilibrium,
aircraft from some trimmed angle of attack.
there are no accelerations and the aircraft
If the aerodynamic pitching moments created
continues in a steady condition of flight. If
by this displacement tend to return the air-
the equilibrium is disturbed by a gust or deflec-
craft to the equilibrium angle of attack the
tion of the controls, the aircraft will experi-
aircraft has positive static longitudinal
ence acceleration due to unbalance of moment
stability.
or force.
The static stability of a system is defined by
DYNAMIC STABILITY
the initial tendency to return to equilibrium
conditions following some disturbance from
While static stability is concerned with the
equilibrium. If an object is disturbed from
tendency of a displaced body to return to
equilibrium and has the tendency to return
equilibrium, dynamic stability is defined by
to equilibrium, positive static stability exists.
the resulting motion with time. If an object is
If the object has a tendency to continue in the
disturbed from equilibrium, the time history
direction of disturbance, negative static stability
of the resulting motion indicates the dynamic
or static instability exists. An intermediate
stability of the system. In general, the system
condition could occur where an object dis-
will demonstrate positive dynamic stability
placed from equilibrium remains in equilibrium
if the amplitude of motion decreases with
in the displaced position. If the object subject
time. The various conditions of possible
to a disturbance has neither the tendency to
dynamic behavior are illustrated by the time
return nor the tendency to continue in the dis-
history diagrams of figure 4.2.
placement direction, neutral static stability ex-
The nonoscillatory modes shown in figure
ists. These three categories of static stability
4.2 depict the time histories possible without
are illustrated in figure 4.1. The ball in a
cyclic motion. If the system is given an initial
trough illustrates the condition of positive
disturbance and the motion simply subsides
static stability. If the ball is displaced from
without oscillation, the mode is termed "sub-
sidence" or "deadbeat return. Such a
motion
equilibrium at the bottom of the trough, the
initial tendency of the ball is to return to the
indicates positive static stability by the tend-
equilibrium condition. The ball may roll
ency to return to equilibrium and positive dy-
back and forth through the point of equilib-
namic stability since the amplitude decreases
rium but displacement to either side creates
with time. Chart B illustrates the mode of
the initial tendency to return. The ball on a
"divergence" by a noncyclic increase of ampli-
hill illustrates the condition of static insta-
tude with time. The initial tendency to con-
bility Displacement from equilibrium at the
tinue in the displacement direction is evidence
hilltop brings about the tendency for greater
of static instability and the increasing ampli-
displacement. The ball on a flat, level surface
tude is proof of dynamic instability. Chart C
illustrates the condition of neutral static sta-
illustrates the mode of pure neutral stability.
bility. The ball encounters a new equilibrium
If the original disturbance creates a displace-
ment which remains constant thereafter, the
at any point of displacement and has neither
lack of tendency for motion and the constant
stable nor unstable tendencies.
amplitude indicate neutral static and neutral
The term "static" is applied to this form of
dynamic stability.
stability since the resulting motion is not
The oscillatory modes of figure 4.2 depict the
considered. Only the tendency to return to
time histories possible with cyclic motion.
equilibrium conditions is considered in static
One feature common to each of these modes is
stability. The static longitudinal stability of
that positive static stability is demonstrated in
an aircraft is appreciated by displacing the
the cyclic motion by tendency to return to
245