
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
1.
Statement of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
(r) Payables
(u) Derivative Financial Instruments
Liabilities for trade creditors and other amounts are
carried at cost which is the fair value of the
The consolidated entity enters into forward exchange
consideration to be paid in future for goods and
contracts where it agrees to buy specified amounts of
services received, whether or not billed to the
foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined
consolidated entity.
exchange rate. The objective is to match the contract
with anticipated future cash flows from purchases in
Payables to related parties are carried at the principal
foreign currencies, to protect the consolidated entity
amount
against the possibility of loss from future exchange
rate fluctuations.
(s) Foreign Currency Transactions
Foreign exchange contracts are recognised at the
Foreign currency items are translated to Australian
date that the contract is entered into. Except for
currency on the following bases:
specific hedges, all resulting exchange differences on
settlement or restatement are recognised as revenues
Transactions are converted at exchange rates in
or expenses in the Statement of Financial
effect at the date of each transaction:
Performance in the current year.
Amounts payable and receivable are translated at
the average of the buy and sell rates available on
(v) Contributed Equity
the close of business at balance date: and
The financial statements of all foreign operations
Ordinary share capital bears no special terms or
are translated using the current rate method as
conditions affecting income or capital entitlements of
they are considered self-sustaining.
the shareholders. Issued and paid up capital is
recognised at the fair value of the consideration
Exchange differences relating to monetary items are
received by the company.
included in the Statement of Financial Performance,
as exchange gains and losses in the period when
Any transaction costs arising on the issue of ordinary
exchange rates change. except where the difference
shares are recognised directly in equity as a reduction
relates to hedging part of the net investment in a self-
in share proceeds received
sustaining foreign operation, in which case the
differences are transferred to the foreign currency
(w) Borrowing Costs
translation reserve on consolidation
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred
(t) Interest-Bearing Liabilities
(x) Earnings Per Share
Bills payable are recognised when issued at the
amount of the net proceeds received, with the
Basic EPS is calculated as net profit attributable to
discount on issue amortised over the period to
members, adjusted to exclude costs of servicing
maturity. Interest is recognised as an expense on an
equity (other than dividends) and preference share
effective yield basis.
dividends, divided by the weighted average number of
ordinary shares, adjusted for any bonus element.
Interest rate swaps are recognised as a liability,
measured by reference to amounts payable. Net
Diluted EPS is calculated as net profit attributable to
receipts and payments are recognised as an
members adjusted for:
adjustment to interest expense.
costs of servicing equity (other than dividends)
and preference share dividends;
All loans are measured at the principal amount
the after tax effect if dividends and interest
Interest is recognised as an expense as it accrues.
associated with dilutive potential ordinary shares
that have been recognised as expenses; and
other non-discretionary changes in revenues or
expenses during the period that would result from
the dilution of potential ordinary shares;
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary
shares and dilutive potential ordinary shares, adjusted
for any bonus element.
32
HARVEY NORMAN HOLDINGS LIMITED AND ITS CONTROLLED ENTITIES - ANNUAL REPORT 2003