
N 1984, CARDINAL JOSEPH RATZINGER
dropped by New York City. He was
heading home to the Vatican from a
conference in Dallas and had saved
a day to tour what was then still
regularly called the Big Apple. Accord-
ing to Father James O'Connor, who was
acting as his chauffeur, Ratzinger sat in
the front seat, the better to take in the
hustle and buzz of the city. They visited
the (Episcopal) Cathedral of St. John the
Divine, the medievally furnished Clois-
ters museum and the Metropolitan Mu-
seum of Art. On the way to Kennedy
Airport, the car stalled halfway through
the Midtown Tunnel, between Manhat-
tan and Queens. O'Connor trudged to the
Queens side, where he found a mechanic,
who happened to be a Jordanian Catholic.
The mechanic recognized the Cardinal
and rushed to his aid. O'Connor recalls
Ratzinger, up and running again, saying
"There is every sort of person in New York,
and they're helpful." A few minutes lat-
er, just after he stepped out onto the curb
at J.F.K., someone rear-ended the car, shat-
RELIGION
tering the back window.
Despite such sweet and sour experi-
ences (including one in 1988 that pro-
duced the memorable tabloid headline
GAYS PROTEST VATICAN BIGGY), the Pope
The
likes New York and what it stands for. "I
think he's really fascinated by the city and
what it represents," says Raphaela Schmid,
a Rome-based German with the Becket
Fund for Religious Liberty, who knows
American
him. "It's about people being two things
at once, like Italian Americans or Chinese
Americans. He's interested in that idea
of coexistence."
That observation captures an often
ignored side of the German-born Pope
Pope
Benedict XVI, 80, on the eve of his first
pontifical visit to the U.S. The trip, which
begins in Washington on April I5 and
On the eve of Benedict XVI's first papal
ends in New York City on April 20, will
visit to the U.S., a revealing look at his
present most Americans with their first
opportunity to take the "new" Pope's
long fascination with America and how
measure. Some American Catholics al-
ready feel they are familiar with Benedict
it is shaping his vision for the world
and his values and coexistence is not an
BY DAVID VAN BIEMA AND JEFF ISRAELY
association that immediately crops up.
Benedict clearly lacks his predecessor's
charismatic affability and sense of the
dramatic gesture. His conservative writ-
ings suggest a divergence from a large
part of the U.S. laity, whom he regards as
victims of the moral relativism he feels
pervades Western culture. Given his past
role as the Vatican's enforcer of orthodoxy,
he might not seem to have any particular
affinity for the democratic, pluralistic
Westward, pilgrim This will be Benedict's sixth
trip to the U.S. and his first as Pontiff
36