
academic underground" (http://www.
into the cache of a name server. The
is hosted on a machine in the hacker's
caughq.org)-precisely the kind of thing
hacker could, for example, change the
evil domain, BadGuysAreUs.com. So
Kaminsky had hoped to forestall.
name server's entry for "www.paypal.
when you access that eBay page seek-
Whereas some network adminis-
com," thus blocking access to PayPal,
ing to purchase a book about Mother
trators may initially have been reluc-
or worse, duping people into going to a
Teresa, your browser sends out a DNS
tant to patch their systems, fearing that
site that mimics PayPal's. From there,
query to look up the IP address of
the upgrade itself might cause prob-
it would be relatively simple to har-
BadGuysAreUs.com.
lems, most of them now seem to have
vest user names, passwords, and other
Assuming the hacker doesn't try
made the change. No definitive tally is
valuable data.
this too often, the address won't be
available, but Kaminsky has created a
Such an attack would work much
in your name server's cache, so it will
tool on his personal Web site (http://
like the many "phishing" scams now
issue a series of queries to other name
www.doxpara.com) that allows visi-
plaguing the Internet, but in this case
servers. Eventually, your name server
tors to check whether the server they
the victims wouldn't need to click on a
will be referred to the bad guy's name
are using has been patched. He reports
link in a shady e-mail message. They
server, which responds by supplying
that as of 9 July, about 85 percent of the
could type the correct name, "www.
the requested IP address. Now here's
name servers being tested were vulner-
paypal.com," directly into a browser
where it gets ugly: the Domain Name
able. But by 6 August, the proportion
and still get sent to the wrong place.
System allows the answer to include
had dropped to 30 percent.
(The real PayPal would upgrade the
additional information. The bad
But even those who have taken
security of the connection from http to
guy's name server could thus be pro-
the appropriate steps are not exactly
https, but the victim may easily fail to
grammed to send a false IP address for
breathing easy. The patch is not a per-
notice when this doesn't happen on the
any other site-such as Citibank (http://
fect countermeasure, as Kaminsky has
scammer's simulated site.)
www.citibank.com)-along with the
emphasized on his blog: "This is just
The attacker could also use this
requested IP address. The fake address
a stopgap-we're still in trouble with
tactic to redirect e-mail. By replac-
would then take the place of the bank's
DNS, just less."
ing the IP address of, say, a corpo-
real IP address in your name server's
rate mail server with the IP address
cache, where it would act to redirect
F YOU FOLLOW computing at all, you
of a mail server that he controlled, he
traffic from anyone trying to use that
know that security experts routinely
could inspect incoming correspon-
server to reach www.citibank.com.
uncover software glitches and vul-
dence before passing it on to the tar-
The ability to tack on additional
nerabilities and then issue software
geted company's mail server. Even
information in a DNS response was
patches and upgrades. What Kaminsky
more troubling, he could add his own
considered a valuable feature when
has found, however, is much bigger and
malicious code to e-mail attachments,
the Internet was first set up-it was
much scarier.
which from the recipient's point of view
designed to provide the IP addresses
To understand why, you need to
might appear to come from known and
of name servers referenced in the main
know the basics of how the DNS works.
trusted sources.
part of the response. At that time, which
The Domain Name System is essentially
Security experts had long been
predates the Web by many years, nobody
the Internet's phone book. It's a huge
aware of two general ways that a
thought much about the possibility of
database containing the 32-bit numeric
hacker could carry out such a "cache
scammers using this mechanism to take
codes that identify every single site
poisoning" attack on a name server.
advantage of folks purchasing things
on the Internet. These are known as
But both had been rendered ineffective
through an Internet auction or doing
Internet Protocol addresses, or IP
years ago with changes to DNS soft-
their banking online.
addresses for short. Amazingly, this
ware. Kaminsky, however, has found
To counter such mischief, DNS soft-
database is distributed over some
a way for a hacker to circumvent these
ware was changed about a decade ago
12 million computers worldwide,
fixes-and to combine the two exploits
to do what is called bailiwick checking.
known as DNS name servers.
in a way that makes an attack espe-
With that, any extra information added
When you type "www.google.com"
cially potent.
to a DNS response is ignored if it per-
into your browser, it must translate
tains to a domain that is different from
that human-readable text into an IP
HE FIRST KIND of attack
the one that was asked about in the
address before it can access the site. To
causes the targeted name
first place. So your name server would
do so, your computer sends a request
server to query a second
disregard an IP address said to be for
to a name server upstream, probably
name server, one that the bad
www.citibank.com if the original query
one maintained by your Internet ser-
guy controls. That turns out
was about BadGuysAreUs.com.
vice provider.
to be incredibly easy to do, even if the
The second way an attacker can
Then, if your ISP's name server has
name server to be poisoned is behind
poison a name server's cache relies
the IP address for the requested site
a corporate firewall or otherwise pro-
on the fact that the conversation
stored-or "cached"-it returns this
tected from outside access.
your computer has with the name
information to your computer pronto.
Suppose this hypothetical villain
server upstream-or the conversation
If not, it goes through what may be an
creates a Web page that contains a
between two name servers involved in
elaborate process querying other name
description of Mother Teresa-perhaps
answering your query-is fundamen-
servers to find the address.
an eBay ad for a copy of her definitive
tally insecure. One computer sends
Kaminsky has discovered a way for
biography. Unbeknownst to you, the
out a request to another and then
a hacker to insert a false IP address
page includes an embedded image that
waits for an answer from it. But the
30
INT
IEEE SPECTRUM
OCTOBER 2008
WWW.SPECTRUM.IEEE.ORG