
Business Overview
Consumer Banking
proportionally to fund performance while guaranteeing a
minimum death coverage: 3) whole-life insurance with an option
SMFG Group companies are enhancing their financial services
enabling conversion to medical or nursing-care insurance; and
for clients. Some of SMBC's noteworthy achievements in
4) whole-life insurance with added-coverage for cancer surger-
this area for fiscal 2010 are investment trusts outstanding of
ies and hospitalization
¥2.725 trillion (as of March 31. 2011): foreign bonds and yen-
As for Japanese government
denominated bond sales of ¥198 billion: pension-type insurance
bonds for individuals, SMBC started
sales of ¥192.1 billion: single premium whole life insurance sales
offering three-year maturity products
of ¥200.5 billion; and housing loans outstanding of ¥14.4908
in June 2010 in addition to our existing
trillion (as of March 31, 2011).
five- and ten-year maturity products.
We continue to offer a wide
Financial Consulting Business
range of foreign-currency and yen-
In fiscal 2010. SMBC continued to
denominated bonds appropriate
enhance its product line up of invest-
for our clients' needs. In April 2010,
BACKBRO
ment trusts. pension-type insurance
SMBC began financial instruments
a
88
life insurance and other financial
intermediary services for individuals as
products.
an agent of SMBC Nikko Securities, in addition to SMBC Friend
For investment trusts, the bank
Securities In January 2011. the operations of SMBC Friend
has expanded its product range to
Securities related to SMBC's financial instruments intermediary
include funds which invest in emerg-
and other services were integrated into those of SMBC Nikko
ing market sovereign bonds and
Securities
corporate bonds. funds which invest
We believe that it is important to support and follow up our
mainly in bonds issued by worldwide
clients even after they have purchased our products. As part of
public utilities companies, and
our fulfilling this commitment we take numerous measures to
Australian dollar-denominated foreign investment trusts which
keep clients up-to-date with new developments - by having
invest in international high-yield bonds
seminars regarding funds performances, monthly issuances
SMBC increased its number of
of special market reports, and mailing of financial statements
funds to a total of 33 (as of March
detailing assets performance
31. 2011) for transactions avail-
able exclusively on the Internet and
Loan Business
mobile phones: this particular service
We develop new products and services to enable us to respond to
was launched in October 2009. The
the diversified needs of our clients. For instance. our housing loan
bank also conducted its time-limited
with insurance for major serious illnesses had an outstanding loan
campaign of charging no load and
balance of ¥1,750 billion. as of March 31. 2011.
discounts on sales commissions, and
In September 2010. SMBC began accepting accelerated
cash back campaigns to clients.
full-sum repayments of housing loans through the SMBC Direct
As for insurance products, we
online banking service With this service. over-the-counter
respond to our clients' needs by selling
procedures can now be completed at home or other remote
level-premium life insurance products at all branches in Japan
locations. This service significantly contributed to maximizing
and enabling those clients having difficulties coming down to
convenience for our clients.
our branch during regular banking hours to request information
Consequently, we are accommodating the diverse needs
materials and application forms through ATMs (started from
of our housing loan clients via the Internet along with existing
August 2010) and the Internet (started from February 2011).
services for partial early repayment and the option to change the
In addition, the bank began offering four new types of over-
interest rate to either floating or fixed rates.
the-counter products:
Following the enactment of the "Act Concerning Temporary
- ** 10
1) pension-type insur-
Measures to Facilitate Financing for Small and Medium-Sized
ZOKE
ance which switches
Enterprises, etc.,' we appointed specialists to provide consulta-
BED->
to a stable investment
tions and assistance with clients having difficulties in repaying
strategy after securing
****
their mortgage at all bank branches as well as at the nine special
the targeted profit;
Loan Support Offices located nationwide
2) a whole-life policy.
We will continue to provide more personalized and expe-
************
of which the insured
dited support and services for such clients.
=DLE
amount increases
ATM screen
8
SMFG 2011