
4
evaluated up to order O(e3), while the velocity field in
(12) is expanded only up to order O(e²), it is not appro-
Here the differentiation with respect to Ii is taken for-
priate to use 12 in order to ensure the conservation of
mally as if x were a regular 3D vector not bound to a
the whole surface area. Therefore, we only use the projec-
sphere of radius unity, and eimn is the Levi-Civita (unit
tions of (12) on Yk.(()) for k equal to 2 or 4. Accordingly,
anti-symmetric) tensor. The advantage of such a defini-
we leave the isotropic part of Z(x) (denoted here as Zo)
tion is that not only do these spherical harmonics consti-
undetermined. Once the final shape evolution equations
tute an orthogonal set with respect to the integration of
are obtained we shall use the constraint that the time
dot product over x. i.e. the quantity
derivative of 9 is equal to zero in order to determine
Zo. This way of reasoning was used in previous studies
8-11 Note that unlike other theories 8-11 since
we
expand the equations to higher order, it is not legitimate
is zero unless j = j' k = K'. l but also operators
to replace A(a) in (12) with d2 prior to projection
G and K are diagonal in the chosen basis for a spherical
on the spherical harmonics sub-space. Such a substitu-
vesicle. so that the integrals
tion would imply neglecting terms of order O(e²) in final
equations, and would be inconsistent with the spirit of
the present theory.
Having determined the velocity field thanks to the
above expansions, we are in a position to obtain the fi-
nal evolution equation by making use of the kinematic
equation expressing the fact that the membrane velocity
is equal to the fluid velocity at the membrane
are zero unless j - j' k = K', I = l' Given the centro-
9f(a))
(x)
(13)
symmetry we impose, in our expansion of v(x). u(x), and
at
R(x)
F(x). the absence of Y1.k.((x), for even k. and Y2kk
Then the task is to substitute the expanded velocity
and Y3.k.((x) for odd k. In order to find the evolution
field into this equation (in terms of coefficients of the
equations we need to expand the velocity field to the
velocity field) and project the resulting expression onto
order of O(e2). Coefficients for for k > 6 are
the space of spherical harmonics of interest This then
O(e3) and thus can be neglected. It will be shown later
leads to the determination of the evolution equations that
that coefficients of 5th and 6th orders of vector spherical
must be satisfied by the shape coefficients fr.e. It can be
harmonics make corrections to the evolution equations
shown that the following identities hold .5.1(x)x, - O.
for fk.1 with A < 4 which are O(e3). So only five first
Y2.6.1(x)x, = 7Y6,1(x) and Y2.6.1(x)x; - 6Y6,1(x). There-
orders (starting from the zeroth one) of vector spherical
fore the projection of the first part of the right hand
harmonics should be taken into account in the expansion
side of (13) on the subspace of spherical harmonics of
of any space-dependent quantity under consideration.
orders up to four does not depend on the coefficients of
In order to fulfil the condition of local inextensibility
the vector spherical harmonics of orders five and six in
of the membrane we impose zero surface divergence of
the velocity field. Regarding the the second part, of (x)
the velocity field
is of order O(s) and the coefficients for fifth and sixth
dA(x)
dv,(x)
orders of vector spherical harmonics in the velocity field
dt dA(a) O. (12)
expansion are of order O(e2) so that their contribution
in the shape evolution equation is of order O(e3), that is
Here
beyond our accuracy.
It is convenient to decompose the applied shear flow
ve()Ov)k
into its elongational and rotational parts to simplify
the final equations. The same decomposition can be
applied to general linear flow: the quantity E2(x) =
is the Jacobian matrix. We can take the derivatives as
defines the straining part. while the vector
if x were a regular 3D vector. because the surface di-
Si, represents the vorticity. Note, that
vergence is fully determined by the distribution of the
u(x) in (10) is the velocity of the imposed flow evaluated
velocity field on the membrane and does not depend on
at the point R(x), which takes the following form
the continuation of the flow into the liquids.
We expand equations 1012 to order O(e2) and the
u(x) = (dE2 +eljkx,Sx)(1+f(x))
resulting integrals could be performed analytically. Pro-
The shape evolution equations for the second and
jecting the results of the integration on the space of vector
fourth order harmonics can be written in a compact form:
spherical harmonics up to the fourth order, we obtain a
set of equations satisfied by the coefficients entering the
expansions of v(x) and Z(x). Since the surface area is
Df2.1 Dt
(14)