
The BHT offers significant branch performance benefits. The BHT allows each PU to take
instruction branches that are based on a stored BHT, which improves processing times for
calculation routines. In addition to the BHT, z14 servers use the following techniques to
improve the prediction of the correct branch to be run:
BTB
PHT
BTB data compression
The success rate of branch prediction contributes significantly to the superscalar aspects of
z14 servers. This success is because the architecture rules prescribe that, for successful
parallel execution of an instruction stream, the correctly predicted result of the branch is
essential.
The z14 branch prediction includes the following enhancements over z13:
Branch prediction search pipeline extended from five to six cycles to accommodate new
predictors for increased accuracy/performance.
New predictors:
- Perceptron (neural network direction predictor)
- SSCRS (hardware-based super simple call-return stack)
Capacity increases:
- Level 1 Branch Target Buffer (BTB1): 1 K rows x 6 sets 2 K rows x 4
sets
- Level 2 Branch Target Buffer (BTB2): 16 K rows x 6 sets 32 K rows x 4 sets
Better power efficiency: Several structures were redesigned to maintain their accuracy
while less power is used through smart access algorithms.
New static IBM IA® regions expanded from four to eight. To conserve space, prediction
structures do not store full target addresses. Instead, they use the locality and limited
ranges of "4gig regions" of virtual instruction addresses - IA(0:31).
3.4.10 Wild branch
When a bad pointer is used or when code overlays a data area that contains a pointer to
code, a random branch is the result. This process causes a 0C1 or 0C4 abend. Random
branches are difficult to diagnose because clues about how the system got there are not
evident.
With the wild branch hardware facility, the last address from which a successful branch
instruction was run is kept. z/OS uses this information with debugging aids, such as the SLIP
command, to determine from where a wild branch came. It can also collect data from that
storage location. This approach decreases the number of debugging steps that are
necessary when you want to know from where the branch came.
106
IBM z14 (3906) Technical Guide