
US 2002/0147433 A1
Oct. 10, 2002
15
[0126] Where a hydrophilic composition is desired, the
ing), coating (e.g., contact slot coating, gravure coating),
amount of hydrophilic surfactant required to increase the
extrusion, or combinations of these application techniques,
wettability of the composition to a desired level will depend
e.g. spraying the skin care composition on a rotating surface,
in part upon the HLB value and level of immobilizing agent,
such as a roll surface, that then transfers the composition to
if any, used, the HLB value of the surfactant used and like
the desired portion of the article. The skin care composition
factors. The composition can comprise from about 0.1 to
containing the proton donating active can also be applied as
about 50% of the hydrophilic surfactant when needed to
a solid material via any of a variety methods, for example
increase the wettability properties of the composition. Pref-
extrusion.
erably, the composition comprises from about 1 to about
[0131] When applied to the article's topsheet, the manner
25%, most preferably from about 10 to about 20%, of the
of applying the composition to the article should be such that
hydrophilic surfactant when needed to increase wettability.
the topsheet does not become saturated with the composi-
[0127] Compositions can comprise other components
tion, at least in the region corresponding to the liquid
typically present in emulsions, creams, ointment, lotions,
discharge region of the article, if the composition is hydro-
powders, suspensions, etc. of this type. These components
phobic in nature. If the topsheet becomes saturated with the
include water, viscosity modifiers, perfumes, disinfectant
composition in the liquid discharge region, there is a greater
antibacterial actives, antiviral agents, vitamins, pharmaceu-
potential for the composition to block the topsheet openings,
tical actives, film formers, deodorants, opacifiers, astrin-
reducing the ability of the topsheet to transmit liquid to the
gents, solvents, preservatives, and the like. In addition,
underlying absorbent core. Also, saturation of the topsheet is
stabilizers can be added to enhance the shelf life of the
not required to obtain the therapeutic and/or protective
composition such as cellulose derivatives, proteins and
benefits. Similarly, saturation of other treated article com-
lecithin All of these materials are well known in the art as
ponents may not be necessary or desired to transfer sufficient
additives for such formulations and can be employed in
composition for desired skin benefits. Particularly suitable
appropriate amounts in the compositions for use herein.
application methods will apply the composition primarily to
the outer surface of the topsheet of the article.
[0128] If water-based skin care compositions are used, a
preservative will be needed. Suitable preservatives include
[0132] The minimum level of the composition containing
propyl paraben, methyl paraben, benzyl alcohol, benzylkon-
the proton donating active to be applied to the article's
nium chloride, tribasic calcium phosphate, BHT. or acids
wearer-contacting surface is an amount effective for provid-
such as citric, tartaric, maleic, lactic, malic, benzoic, sali-
ing the therapeutic, protective and/or skin conditioning
cylic, and the like. Suitable viscosity increasing agents
benefits when the composition is delivered pursuant to the
include some of the agents described as effective immobi-
present invention The level of composition applied will
lizing agents. Other suitable viscosity increasing agents
depend on various factors, including the article component
include alkyl galactomannan, silica, tale, magnesium sili-
treated, the relative amount of surface area of the wearer-
cate, sorbitol, colloidal silicone dioxide, magnesium alumi-
contacting surface not treated with the composition, the
num silicate, zinc stearate, wool wax alcohol, sorbitan
composition's content and the like. In general, with com-
sesquioleate, cetyl hydroxyethyl cellulose and other modi-
positions that are relatively hydrophobic and are to be
fied celluloses. Suitable solvents include propylene glycol,
applied to essentially all of the topsheet, the composition is
glycerin, cyclomethicone, polyethylene glycols, hexylene
preferably applied to the article topsheet in an amount
glycol, diol and multi-hydroxy based solvents Suitable
ranging from about 0.1 mg/in2 (0.016 mg/cm2) to about 15
vitamins include A, D-3, E. B-5 and E acetate
mg/in (2.33 mg/cm2), more preferably from about 1 mg/in2
(0.16 mg/cm2) to about 10 mg/in2 (1.55 mg/cm2. It will be
[0129] VI. Treating Articles With the Skin Care Compo-
recognized that higher levels of skin care composition may
sition
be applied to other article components where fluid handling
properties are not impacted (e.g., cuffs, waist band, side
[0130] In preparing absorbent articles to carry out the
panels, etc.). It will also be recognized that for compositions
methods of the present invention, the skin care composition
that are relatively hydrophilic, higher add-on levels may be
containing the proton donating active is applied such that
used on the topsheet without adversely impacting liquid
during wear, at least some portion of the composition will
handling properties to an unacceptable degree. Conversely,
transfer from the treated article to the wearer's skin. That is,
higher levels of a hydrophilic composition may be undesired
the skin care composition is either applied directly to one or
when applied to components (e.g., cuff, waist) other than the
more body contacting surfaces, or is applied in alternate
topsheet, to avoid wicking of exudates to the edges of the
locations or means such that the skin care composition is
article which may result in leakage.
readily available for transfer from one or more body con-
tacting surfaces during use without intervention by the
[0133] Because the composition is preferably substantially
user/caregiver. (For example, materials positioned beneath
immobilized on the surface of the region treated, relatively
the body contacting surface, encapsulated compositions,
small amounts of composition are needed to deliver an
etc.) Of course, to effectuate delivery of the composition to
effective amount of the proton donating active. It is believed
those body regions most susceptible to skin roughness, it
that the ability to use low levels to impart the desired skin
will be preferred to include the composition on the portion
benefits is due to the fact that the composition is continu-
of the topsheet and cuffs that will contact the wearer's
ously, automatically delivered as articles are worn. As
buttocks, genitals, intertriginous and anal regions during
indicated, the ability to use relatively low levels of skin care
wear. Additionally, the composition may be applied to other
composition, allows the article's topsheet to maintain its
article regions for delivery to one or more of the wearer's
liquid transfer properties in the liquid discharge region.
hips, abdomen, back, waist, sides, thighs, etc. Suitable
[0134] The composition can be applied nonuniformly to
methods include spraying, printing (e.g., flexographic print-
the body contacting surface of the article. By "nonuniform"