
3
Conduction
exchange mechanism 14.17 We account for this p-d in-
Band
direct exchange by introducing a classical Mn vector of
t2g
magnitude 5/2. which couples to the neighboring As P
states. There are no explicit d electrons in our model;
they are accounted for only implicitly via the exchange
eg
interaction between the localized moments and the As P
Mn 3d
As 4p
spins on neighboring sites.
10c
Our tight-binding kinetic exchange Hamiltonian takes
t2g
the following form:
Dangling
Bonds
eg
Valence
Band
Atomic
Crystal
Hybridization
Exchange Field
4WENET
(1)
FIG. 1: Schematic drawing of the level dynamics leading to
a polarized acceptor at the top of the valence band. The Mn
The first term reproduces the band-structure of bulk
3d up and down electrons are split by the atomic exchange
GaAsT8 and contains the near-neighbor hopping and on-
in accordance with Hund's first rule. The levels are further
site energies in terms of the Slater-Koster parameters 1020
split by the crystal field into a doublet of eg and a triplet of
Esge to for the 8 and P electrons of Ga and As. In (1) i and
t2g-symmetry. The t2g-levels hybridize with nearest neighbor
J are atomic indices, u and is are orbital indices and a
dangling bond As p-states, such that the levels at the top of
the valence band with spin parallel to the Mn spin are pushed
denotes spin. In simulating the (110) surface. buckling is
up in energy. Spin up is denoted by + and spin down by
accounted for by rescaling the tight-binding param-
eters and modifying the direction cosines appropriately.
The second term implements the p-d exchange mecha-
nism described above. It couples the unit spin vector of
the Mn is missing the Ga 4p valence electron, it intro-
Mn atom mr Sm to the P orbitals of the nearest neigh-
duces a hole in the system. simultaneously acting as an
bor As atoms n/m]: Sn = 1/2 where
acceptor and a source of magnetic moments. In bulk,
It is a vector of Pauli matrices. The value of Jpd has
the holes introduced by many Mn impurities form itin-
been inferred by theory 23 and experiment to approx-
erant carriers that mediate the ferromagnetic coupling
imately Jpd = 1.5 eV. The three p-d hybridized levels,
between localized moments. Fig. shows a schematic
spin-polarized in the direction of the Mn moment Supp
drawing of what happens when a Mn substitutes a Ga in
are split from the three levels polarized in the opposite
the GaAs lattice The Mn 3d5 up states (for example)
direction by an energy of order Jpd.
that lodge in the valence band are exchange-split from
The third term in Eq. accounts for SO interactions
the down states that end up in the conduction band.
in an atomic approximation with the renormalized spin-
The crystal field imposes the tetrahedral host symmetry,
orbit splittings AGa = 2AMn = 58 meV and is - 140
resulting in a further split into a doublet of eg symme-
meV. Spin-orbit interaction causes the band energy to
try and a triplet of t2g symmetry. The eg states couple
depend not only on the relative angles between different
only weakly to the host. The t2g states on the other
Mn spin directions, but also on spin-orientations relative
hand, hybridize with the As nearest neighbor dangling-
to the lattice.
bond P states at the top of the valence band, forming
The fourth term of the Hamiltonian accounts for a
bonding and antibonding combinations Effectively, the
long-range repulsive Coulomb interaction in the presence
neighboring As P spins at the top of the valence band
of a Mn impurity. which attracts a weakly bound hole
that are parallel to the Mn spin are shifted up in energy,
and repels electrons At the surface, we crudely account
whereas p spins that are antiparallel to the Mn spin are
for the weaker dielectric screening by reducing the bulk
shifted down. Therefore, the main effect of a single sub-
dielectric constant E, in half. The Coulomb behavior at
stitutional Mn with spin up, is to introduce three spin-
short distances is parametrized in Vcorr, which is a Mn
polarized ("up") levels above the top of the valence band
central cell correction term used as a parameter to tune
and three spin-polarized ("down") levels below. These
the Mn acceptor level to the experimental position125
six states are predominantly of As P character The hole
It contains an on-site Von - 1.0 eV (that is, acting on
introduced by a single Mn will occupy the highest of the
the Mn) and an off-site term Voff = 2.4 eV. The off-
three antibonding states (indicated by the empty circle in
site Coulomb correction affects the nearest neighbor As
Fig. 1) In this way, the hybridization mechanism gives
atoms and together with Jpd controls the amount of p-d
rise to an antiferromagnetic coupling between itinerant
hybridization in the system and the range of the acceptor
and localized spins by what is known as Zener's kinetic-
wave function.