
GLOBAL BUSINESS AIRLINES
economy, strategies, pressures from dis-
Premium flight data.
IOO business-class seats on a 767 just eight
counters, international routes with domes-
Comparing the majors and
months later; most start-ups take two years.
tic routes-has a hard time keeping pace."
the start-ups in the New
Hunt expects to break even in six to eight
EOS's usual fare to London, $7,500, under-
York-London market
months and will soon add two more planes.
cuts BA's by 20%; its lowest fare is $3,280.
My flight on Silverjet had a few firsts:
Silverjet weighs in at $1,798.
BRITISH AIRWAYS
my first time passing through security and
With the roughly 3,600 seats in premi-
boarding a plane in seven minutes; the first
Airports: J.F.K. and London Heathrow
um cabins (about 30% of the total) generat-
Fares: $3,500-$14,000*
women-only loo in the troposphere (the
ing 70% of the revenue-and 100% of the
Aircraft: 767s, 747s; First-class seats: 1.98-
result of a heartfelt suggestion from a
profit-on the $1.75 billion New York-
m fully flat beds, 53 cm wide
woman at Heathrow); the first carbon-
London route, it's no wonder the big carriers
Business-class seats: 1.98-m fully flat beds,
neutral airline, which takes up to $23 from
are not taking this front-of-the-plane chal-
64 cm wide
round-trip fares to fund projects that neu-
lenge lying down. As part of an 18-month
Flights per day: 11
tralize carbon emissions.
rollout, BA will spend $190 million on im-
It was economics rather than environ-
provements to its Club World offerings and
AMERICAN AIRLINES
ment that attracted Nigel Hysom and Craig
its "2.0" plan for flat beds, which BA origi-
Airports: J.F.K. and London Heathrow
Thrussell to Silverjet, whose $1,800 price
nated in 2000. American Airlines, which
Fares: $3,300-$12,000*
appeals to a category of flyer called SMES, for
has 18% of the J.F.K-Heathrow seats, just in-
Aircraft: 777s; First-class seats: 2.03-m fully
"small and medium enterprises." The two
vested $20 million to upgrade its 767s.
flat beds, 53 cm to 76 cm wide
London-based financial consultants fly as
Given the complexities of a traditional
Business-class seats: 1.96-m lie-flat beds
often as twice a month and usually take Air
carrier's operations, this new business mod-
recline 171°, 64 cm wide
India because of its low $2,000 round-trip
el seems like a logical one. A single-class
Flights per day: 6
business fare. "We don't have the buying
cabin streamlines onboard service and crew
power to fly BA or Virgin," says Hysom. "As
training, and using smaller jets, like 757s,
EOS AIRLINES
a growing business, we have to look at
lowers fuel and maintenance costs. So the
Airports: J.F.K. and London Stansted
costs-and a flat bed is everything."
new entrants can offer competitive premi-
Fares: $3,280-$7,500
For now, the transatlantic market,
um service at a reduced price.
Aircraft: 757s with 48 seats, 1.98-m fully flat
buoyed by corporate travel, can keep a lot of
But it's not all smooth air for the start-
beds, 53 cm wide
planes in the air, but should the traffic slow,
Flights per day: 3
ups. Virginia-based MAXjet launched in
the incumbents could always resort to price
November 2005 with I02 all-business-class
wars, a tactic they've used in the past to shoo
seats on a 767 flying between J.F.K. and
SILVERJET
away upstarts. The upstarts, on the other
Stansted. Price: $1,500. But MAXjet's ex-
Airports: Newark Liberty and London Luton
hand, need new markets, which could test
pansion to the Washington-Dulles/London
Fares: $1,800-$2,500
their operating capability. "EOS is still the
route has floundered. The company sus-
Aircraft: 767 with 100 seats, 1.91-m lie-flat
gold standard, but Silverjet is proving that
pended that service and says it will resume
beds recline 160°, 56 cm wide
the alternative carriers are here to stay," says
Flights per day: 1
in May. CEO William Stockbridge, who
Michael Holtz, owner of the Smart Flyer, a
abruptly took over after Gary Rogliano
high-end travel agency in New York City.
stepped down just a year after launch, says
MAXJET AIRWAYS
As a publicly traded company, Silverjet will
MAXjet will soon add two jets to its fleet,
Airports: J.F.K. and London Stansted
be under pressure to deliver profits. Lob-
making a total of five, and offer another des-
Fares: $1,500-$3,400
benberg says the airline is likely to compete
tination in the summer. Says analyst
Aircraft: 767s with 102 seats, 1.98-m lie-flat
with MAXjet in efforts to capture the bot-
Lobbenberg: "Its price proposition is per-
beds recline 160°, 48 cm wide
tom end of the up market.
Flights per day: 2
fect, but they need to sharpen up the oper-
As for EOS, UBS transport analyst Tim
ational execution."
Marshall says, it "would be prudent to target
Business and first class
That's where EOS has excelled. Focusing
Sources: Airlines listed here
the SME and leisure market rather than the
on business flyers has yielded both cachet
global corporates," arguing that network
and efficiency. "Ours is the difference be-
depth, breadth and frequency are important
tween shopping at Tiffany and shopping at
to corporate flyers. "The presence of EOS
Sears," says Spurlock, who spent five years
may actually stimulate the business-class
at BA. "If you produce a product that has a
leisure market," says Marshall.
higher quality, that is somehow more nim-
That might allow many people, like me,
and you can be more efficient, that busi-
who are now crammed in coach to upgrade.
ness is going to succeed," he says. EOS has
And it would give business flyers more flex-
added a third daily flight each way, has been
ibility. Simon Martin, a British futures
negotiating for new jets and is planning ad-
exchange analyst who usually flies BA,
ditional routes after raising another $75 mil-
Delta or American, was on an EOS flight for
lion in financing.
two reasons: he didn't want his business
The only public start-up of the group,
compromised by potential labor troubles
Silverjet, splits élitism and efficiency down
(since resolved) at BA, and he was the com-
the middle. It's not every day that you see
pany's guinea pig for finding other airline
the CEO of an airline collecting trash and
options. He would report to colleagues that
empty champagne glasses. But Lawrence
EOS was "slightly better" than BA's first
Hunt, 40, is a Richard Branson-style British
class. "It's a dirty job," he said, after finger
maverick who rolls up his sleeves, raises
Wheels up In eight months, Hunt got Silverjet in
sandwiches and a sweet cheese soufflé, "but
$55 million in capital and takes flight with
the air and crossing the Atlantic in comfort
someone's got to do it."
60
TIME May 7, 2007