
As discussed earlier, all patterns are left hand unless indicated
Inbound to an uncontrolled airport, the CTAF frequency
otherwise Sectional aeronautical charts list a right hand
should be monitored to listen for other aircraft in the pattern
pattern along with the airport information as shown in
to find out what is the active runway being used by other air
Figure 10-6. The segmented circle of Figure 10-5 and the
traffic. [Figure 10-8]
airport shown in Figure 10-6 both clearly show the patterns
for this airport.
When approaching an airport for landing, the traffic pattern
should be entered at a 45° angle to the downwind leg, headed
toward a point abeam of the midpoint of the runway to be
used for landing as shown in Figures 10-1 and 10-7. Arriving
aircraft should be at the proper traffic pattern altitude before
entering the pattern and should stay clear of the traffic
flow until established on the entry leg. Entries into traffic
patterns while descending create specific collision hazards
and should always be avoided. During the WSC 45° entry
into the pattern, the WSC aircraft must pass through the
larger airplane pattern. so it is essential that alert see-and-
avoid procedures plus additional radio communications be
practiced during this transition
The entry leg should be of sufficient length to provide a
clear view of the entire traffic pattern and to allow the pilot
adequate time for planning the intended path in the pattern
and the landing approach.
The downwind leg is a course flown parallel to the landing
Figure 10-5. Left hand pattern for one direction and right hand
runway but in a direction opposite to the intended landing
pattern for other direction.
direction. This leg for the slower WSC aircraft should be
approximately 1/4 to 1/2 mile out from the landing runway,
91
and at the specified traffic pattern altitude unless the airport
READ
specifically specifies a lower altitude for WSC aircraft.
91
[Figure 10-91 The faster airplanes would be 1/2 to 1 mile
CARSON(CXP)
out from the landing runway. During this leg. the before
AWOS-3 119.925
landing check should be completed. Pattern altitude should
Right Pattern for Runway 9
be maintained until abeam the approach end of the landing
runway. At this point, power should be reduced and a descent
Stewart
begun. The downwind leg continues past a point abeam the
approach end of the runway to a point approximately 45°
from the approach end of the runway, and a medium bank
11
turn is made onto the base leg.
The base leg is the transitional part of the traffic pattern
between the downwind leg and the final approach leg.
Depending on the wind condition, it is established at a
sufficient distance from the approach end of the landing
runway to permit a gradual descent to the intended touchdown
Figure 10-6. Example of traffic pattern indicator on sectional
point. The ground track of the aircraft while on the base leg
showing right hand pattern for runway 9. See Figure 10-5 for
should be perpendicular to the extended centerline of the
segmented circle for this airport.
landing runway, although the longitudinal axis of the aircraft
may not be aligned with the ground track when it is necessary
A segmented circle in Figure 10-7 provides traffic patterns
to turn into the wind to counteract drift. While on the base
so there is no air traffic over the lower right hand area, which
leg and before turning onto the final approach, the pilot must
could be a hazard or populated area.
ensure that there is no danger of colliding with another aircraft
10-6