
Dear Shareholder,
After three years of prolonged decline, the global search market
On the cost side of the business, we have taken the difficult steps
finally began to return in Fiscal Year 2004. While the market was
to build a strong balance sheet and healthy cash flow. With cost cut-
sluggish in the first six months, we finished the fiscal year strongly,
ting actions that began in 2001, we ultimately reduced our global
with a 20 percent increase in fee revenue in the second half over
headcount from 3,000 to 1,400, and we sublet more than 400,000
the first half. Our relentless focus on cost-cutting also paid off as
square feet of office space. As a result, our FY04 EBITDA (excluding
we generated $0.21 of earnings per share in the fourth quarter, the
non-recurring restructuring charges) improved from $2.9 million
highest quarterly EPS since 2001.
to $25.8 million year-over-year, and we ended the fiscal year with
Our improved financial performance was fueled by our multi-
$108 million in cash on hand.
product strategy, our focus on client relationships and our discipline
Looking forward, we are bullish on the executive search market
on the cost side of the business With these building blocks in place,
and on Korn/Ferry's multi-product strategy. In June, we presented
we benefited substantially from the recovery in the global economy
our board with a three-year strategic plan which calls for an invest-
and an increased demand for executive-level jobs.
ment in and focus on our clients, our people and our technology
I am especially pleased to report that Futurestep not only
- a program that we are calling K/F One.
recorded an increase in revenue for FY04, but also recorded an
K/F One is a three-year strategic roadmap designed to make
operating profit for the first time since the inception of the business
Korn/Ferry the undisputed career destination in the executive
in 1999. We restructured the Futurestep business model in line with
search industry, a plan that sets the stage for Korn/Ferry to dominate
client demand, by focusing on project recruiting and outsourcing As
in the 21st century. It is a comprehensive approach that encompasses
a result, we have developed a strong operational model that meets
our major corporate initiatives for the next three years, with pro-
client needs and presents a scalable, profitable business proposition
grams focused on clients, culture, quality, technology, and branding.
for Korn/Ferry shareholders In addition, we continue to evolve
I'd like to thank all of our employees, and our board of directors
our Leadership Development Solutions offerings, which include
for their support and commitment throughout the tough eco-
strategic management assessment and executive coaching. In FY04,
nomic downturn, and for their energy and resolute focus during
these businesses, coupled with Futurestep, accounted for 13 percent
the recovery. In FY04, we welcomed two new board members,
of our revenue This is in line with our three-year plan to generate
Ihno Schneevoigt and Ken Whipple, who bring deep international
25 percent of our revenue from businesses other than executive search
experience and broad corporate and financial expertise. Ihno and
The key to our long-term growth lies in deep and broad client
Ken have already made great contributions, and I look forward to
relationships and our ability to evolve our customer interactions
their continued guidance.
from the purely transactional to a more strategic relationship. In
Our core strengths are our people, our brand and our culture.
FY04, we continued to enhance our account management structure,
These competitive assets, coupled with an extensive global footprint
and began cascading our global account systems down to regional
and macro demographic trends that will create and sustain a war
teams. These regional and global accounts allow us to provide
for talent for the next two decades, make us confident in our ability
clients with an array of recruitment solutions and to solidify long-
to grow and thrive. We are committed to providing our clients with
term business relationships.
unparalleled service, our employees with the best available tech-
Perhaps most critical to our success has been our deep pool
nology and professional development, and our shareholders with
of talented consultants, who represent the best in the business
superior returns and growth. We have endured the most prolonged
We were able to enhance our terrific team this past year, with the
and severe recession that the search industry has ever faced, and
strategic recruitment of new consultants to add strength in specific
we have emerged stronger, more focused and better equipped for
areas. In FY04, we recruited 46 new Senior Client and Client Part-
the upturn. I look forward to a great Fiscal Year 05.
ners in to Korn/Ferry. These consultants came from each of our
major competitors and from senior industry roles, and have brought
incremental revenue and client relationships to the firm. Many of
these consultants are well known in the marketplace, including
Joe Griesedieck, former CEO of Spencer Stuart, and Bob Damon,
a former Vice Chairman of Spencer Stuart. Our ability to recruit
industry leaders like Joe and Bob is a reflection of the strength of
Pal C Rully
our brand, the reputation of our search consultants, and the under-
Paul C. Reilly
lying belief in our long-term strategy.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer