
BOOKSHELF
T
he Craft of System Security, Sean
Part I provides a basic introduction
Smith and John Marchesini.
to MDL and an overview of the con-
Security practitioners, develop-
cepts in statistics and information the-
ers, managers, administrators, and
ory needed to understand MDL. Part
users who read this book can glean an
II addresses universal coding, the
understanding of today's security chal-
information-theoretic notion on
lenges-and anticipate tomorrow's.
which MDL is built. Part III gives a
This book reveals why each tool in the
Springer; www.springer.com; 978-
formal treatment of MDL as a theory
modern security practitioner's toolkit
1-84628-942-2; 254 pp.
of inductive inference based on uni-
exists and demonstrates exactly how
versal coding. Part IV provides a com-
to use it to solve real problems.
After quickly reviewing the history
Q
uantum Computer Science: An
prehensive overview of the statistical
Introduction, N. David Mermin.
theory of exponential families with an
of computer security, the authors dis-
The author provides a concise intro-
emphasis on their information-theo-
cuss the modern landscape, showing
duction to quantum computation,
retic properties. The text includes sev-
how security challenges and responses
developing the basic elements of this
eral summaries, paragraphs offering
have evolved and offering a coherent
new branch of computational theory
the reader a fast track through the
framework for understanding today's
without assuming any background in
material, and boxes highlighting the
systems and vulnerabilities. Next, they
physics.
most important concepts.
systematically introduce the basic
Beginning with an introduction to
MIT Press; mitpress.mit.edu; 0-262-
building blocks for securing contem-
the quantum theory from a computer-
07281-5; 504 pp.
porary systems, apply them to today's
science perspective, the book illustrates
applications, and consider important
the quantum-computational approach
emerging trends such as hardware-
with several elementary examples of
H
andbook of Dynamic System
Modeling, Paul A. Fishwick, ed.
based security. Other topics covered
quantum speedup, then moves on to
The topic of dynamic models tends to
include using operating system security
the major applications: Shor's factor-
be splintered across various disciplines,
tools and structures, identifying soft-
ing algorithm, Grover's search algo-
making it difficult to uniformly study
ware security defects, from buffer over-
rithm, and quantum error correction.
the subject. Moreover, the models have
flows to development process flaws,
Cambridge University Press; www.
a variety of representations, from tra-
and understanding cryptographic prim-
cambridge.org 978-0-521-87658-2;
ditional mathematical notations to
itives and their use in secure systems.
236 pp.
diagrammatic and immersive depic-
Addison-Wesley Professional; WWW.
tions. Collecting all these expressions
awprofessional.com; 0-321-43483-8;
T
he Minimum Description Length
of dynamic models, this book explores
592 pp.
Principle, Peter D. Grünwald. The
a panoply of different modeling meth-
minimum description length principle is
ods available for dynamic systems.
intelligent Computing Everywhere,
a powerful method of inductive infer-
The book first introduces the gen-
Alfons Schuster, ed. This book reflects
ence, the basis of statistical modeling,
eral concepts, representations, and
the current perception in various fields
pattern recognition, and machine learn-
philosophy of dynamic models, fol-
that modern computing applications
ing. MDL methods are particularly
lowed by a section on modeling
are becoming increasingly challenged in
well-suited for dealing with model selec-
methodologies that explains how to
terms of complexity and intelligence. It
tion, prediction, and estimation prob-
portray designed models on a com-
investigates the relevance and relation-
lems in situations where the models
puter. After addressing scale, hetero-
ship that artificial intelligence maintains
under consideration can be arbitrarily
geneity, and composition issues, the
with "modern strands of computing"
complex and overfitting the data is a
book covers model types often char-
such as pervasive computing and ambi-
serious concern.
acterized by specific visual- or text-
ent intelligence, bioinformatics, neu-
This extensive, step-by-step intro-
based grammars. It concludes with
roinformatics, computing and the mind,
duction to the MDL principle pro-
case studies that employ two well-
nonclassical computing and novel com-
vides a comprehensive reference
known commercial packages to con-
puting models, as well as DNA com-
accessible to graduate students and
struct, simulate, and analyze dynamic
puting and quantum computing.
researchers in statistics, pattern clas-
models.
The book examines each subject
sification, machine learning, and data
CRC Press; www.crcpress.com;
from two main viewpoints: The first
mining; to philosophers interested in
1-58488-565-3; 760 pp.
provides a state-of-the-art introduc-
the foundations of statistics; and to
tion to a field such as DNA comput-
researchers in other applied sciences
ing, and the second investigates the
that involve model selection, includ-
Send book announcements to
subject from an artificial intelligence
ing biology, econometrics, and exper-
newbooks@ computer.org.
perspective.
imental psychology.
November 2007
103