
17
number of publications in the years 1950 to 1985. Here
of Lane and Lynn perturbatively to weakly overlapping
we can give only an outline of the main developments.
resonances
The development of the statistical theory of CN reac-
The first attempt to construct a comprehensive statis-
tions depended on the availability of a suitable theoret-
tical theory is due to Moldauer (1961 1963 1964 1969
ical framework to describe resonance reactions. Such a
1975 1976 1980) (see also references to further work
framework is needed to formulate statistical assumptions
therein). In order to go beyond the regime of isolated
on the resonance parameters. But to a large extent the
resonances, Moldauer used an expansion of the scatter-
availability of such a framework depended on the devel-
ing matrix in terms of its poles in the complex energy
opment of nuclear-structure theory. Early attempts to
plane. This form of the S-matrix had been proposed
formulate statistical models mirror the development of
by Humblet and Rosenfeld (1961) In contrast to the R-
the dynamical theory of nuclei.
matrix theory, the Humblet-Rosenfeld theory is a dy-
The R-matrix theory by Wigner and Eisenbud (1947)
namical theory: The parameters of the pole expansion
was formulated at a time when virtually nothing was
are, in principle, completely determined by the Hamil-
known about nuclear structure and is, by necessity, a
tonian, and there are no arbitrary parameters. Unfor-
very formal theory: Except for the short range of the
tunately an explicit analytical connection between the
nucleon-nucleon interaction, it does not refer to any spe-
Hamiltonian and the positions of the poles and the val-
cific feature of the nuclear Hamiltonian Resonances are
ues of the residues, is not known. Thus, the Humblet-
constructed as follows. The nucleus is thought to be en-
Rosenfeld theory is effectively a formal theory like the R-
closed by fictitious boundaries (one for each two-body
matrix theory. Moreover, the following difficulty arises.
fragmentation). On these boundaries fictitious bound-
For isolated resonances there is a one-to-one correspon-
ary conditions are imposed As a result. the spectrum
dence between a resonance and a pole of the scattering
of the nuclear Hamiltonian in the "internal region" (the
matrix, see Eq. (18). The parameters of the pole possess
domain enclosed by the boundaries) is discrete. The
a direct physical interpretation as partial width ampli-
eigenvalues and eigenfunctions depend on numerous pa-
tudes and as energy and total width of the resonance.
rameters (distance of the boundaries from the center of
In the general case of many overlapping resonances the
mass, values of the boundary conditions). Green's theo-
Humblet-Rosenfeld expansion uses the same parameters
rem is used to connect these discrete levels with the chan-
(residues and locations of the poles of the S-matrix plus
nels, and the levels become CN resonances Even today
a smooth background matrix). But the simple interpre-
the resulting form of the scattering matrix is extremely
tation valid for isolated resonances does not apply. More-
useful for the analysis of experimental data containing
over, the theory is not manifestly unitary. For isolated
several partly overlapping resonances ("multi-level R-
resonances the unitarity constraint leads to the simple
matrix fit"). However, few-level approximations to the
sum rule (19) while it imposes complicated relations be-
S-matrix are not automatically unitary. Moreover, the
tween the pole parameters for overlapping resonances.
form of the S-matrix is rather unwieldy and depends
These have never been untangled. Therefore, the choice
explicitly on the parameters just mentioned. For these
of statistical assumptions for the pole parameters was
reasons, the R-matrix has never been used as the starting
far from obvious. At some point. Moldauer used the K-
point of a statistical approach.
matrix formulation (35) of the S-matrix, assumed that
Lane and Lynn (1957 calculated the average cross sec-
the energies E1 and matrix elements Wau in Eq.
34
tion for neutron capture reactions in the regime of iso-
obeyed GOE statistics, and determined the distribution
lated resonances. The calculation was possible without
of pole parameters via a numerical simulation His re-
referring to a comprehensive theory of resonance reac-
lentless efforts met with limited success but kept interest
tions. Indeed, in the regime < d each resonance is
in the problem. Some of his results are reviewed in Sec-
independently described by a Breit-Wigner formula as
tion V.F
in Eqs. (18) or 1250 If one assumes that the distribution
Feshbach's
unified
theory
of
nuclear
reac-
of resonance parameters of isolated resonances follows the
tions
Feshbach
1958
1962
1964)
was
the
first
GOE, the partial width amplitudes in each channel are
theory of CN reactions that expressed the scattering
Gaussian-distributed random variables. For each reso-
matrix in terms of the Hamiltonian of the system with-
nance the total width is related to the partial widths
out the help of arbitrary parameters. It uses projection
Tass by the sum rule (19) The resonance energies do
operators onto the spaces of open and of closed channels.
not enter the calculation of the energy-averaged cross
The projection of the nuclear Hamiltonian onto the
section. The task consists in calculating the ensemble
space of closed channels defines a self-adjoint operator
average of where a and b are two specific chan-
with a discrete spectrum. The bound states of that
nels (here: the neutron and the gamma decay channel).
operator generate the resonances in the full problem.
This can be done using the GOE and as input values for
The theory was used by Lemmer and Shakin (1964) for
the averages of the partial widths. the strength functions
a first calculation of elastic neutron scattering on 15N
(Tap)/d. see Section [V.A. A correction factor deduced
using the nuclear shell model. Quasibound shell-model
from R-matrix theory accounted for the effect of weak
states appeared as neutron resonances. Although not
resonance overlap. Moldauer (1961) extended the result
related to the statistical theory, that work demonstrated