
Stall Recovery Template
1. Wing leveler or autopilot
1. Disconnect
2. a) Nose-down pitch control
2. a) Apply until impending stall indications are eliminated
b) Nose-down pitch trim
b) As needed
3. Bank
3. Wings Level
4. Thrust/Power
4. As needed
5. Speed brakes/spoilers
5. Retract
6. Return to the desired flight path
Figure 12-19. Stall recovery procedure.
the AOA until the stall warning is eliminated. The pilot then
be retracted when a positive rate of climb is attained, and flaps
rolls the wings level with coordinated use of the rudder and
retracted, if flaps were set for takeoff. The target airspeed on
smoothly applies power as required The airplane should be
recovery is Vx if (simulated) obstructions are present. or Vy.
accelerated to Vx (if simulated obstacles are present) or Vx
The pilot should anticipate the need for nose-down trim as the
during recovery and climb. Considerable forward elevator/
airplane accelerates to Vx or Vy after recovery.
stabilator pressure will be required after the stall recovery
as the airplane accelerates to Vx or Vy. Appropriate trim
Full Stall
input should be anticipated The flap setting should be
It is not recommended that full stalls be practiced unless a
reduced from full to approach. or as recommended by the
qualified flight instructor is present. A power-off or power-on
manufacturer. Then, with a positive rate of climb, the landing
full stall should only be practiced in a structured lesson with
gear is selected up. The remaining flaps are then retracted as
clear learning objectives and cautions discussed The goals
a positive rate-of-climb continues
of the training are (a) to provide the pilots the experience
of the handling characteristics and dynamic cues (e.g.,
Power-On Approach to Stall (Takeoff and Departure)
buffet. roll off) near and at full stall and (b) to reinforce the
A power-on approach to stall is trained and checked to
proper application of the stall recovery procedures. Given
simulate problematic takeoff scenarios. A power-on approach
the associated risk of asymmetric thrust at high angles of
to stall may be performed from straight-and-level flight
attack and low rudder effectiveness due to low airspeeds,
or from shallow and medium banked turns (20 degrees of
this reinforces the primary step of first lowering the AOA,
bank). To initiate a power-on approach to stall maneuver,
which allows all control surfaces to become more effective
the area surrounding the airplane should always be cleared
and allows for roll to be better controlled Thrust should only
to look for potential traffic. The airplane is slowed to the
be used as needed in the recovery.
manufacturer's recommended lift-off speed. The airplane
should be configured in the takeoff configuration. Trim should
Accelerated Approach to Stall
be adjusted for this speed. Engine power is then increased
Accelerated approach to stall should be performed with a bank
to that recommended in the AFM/POH for the practice of
of approximately 45°, and in no case at a speed greater than
power-on approach to stall. In the absence of a recommended
the airplane manufacturer's recommended airspeed or the
setting, use approximately 65 percent of maximum available
specified design maneuvering speed (VA). The entry altitude
power. Begin a turn, if desired, while increasing AOA to
for this maneuver should be no lower than 5,000 feet AGL
induce a stall warning (e.g., aural alert, buffet. etc.). Other
specified (reduced) power settings may be used to simulate
The entry method for the maneuver is no different than
performance at higher gross weights and density altitudes.
for a single-engine airplane. Once at an appropriate speed,
begin increasing the back pressure on the elevator while
When the airplane reaches the stall warning, the recovery
maintaining a coordinated 45 turn. A good speed reduction
is made first by reducing the AOA until the stall warning is
rate is approximately 3-5 knots per second Once a stall
eliminated The pilot then rolls the wings level with coordinated
warning occurs, recover promptly by reducing the AOA
use of the rudder and applying power as needed. However,
until the stall warning stops. Then roll the wings level with
if simulating limited power available for high gross weight
coordinated rudder and add power as necessary to return to
and density altitude situations, the power during the recovery
the desired flightpath.
should be limited to that specified The landing gear should
12-27