
PROFILE
Taking On the Big Man
Morgan Tsvangirai has been attacked and arrested
for challenging Zimbabwe's despot Robert Mugabe.
Now he may be on the verge of unseating him
BY ALEX PERRY/CAPE TOWN
MORGAN TSVANGIRAI HAS BEEN THIS
independence and start focusing on our
The physical contrast between Tsvan-
close before. In 2002 he was widely
prosperity and freedom."
girai and Mugabe emphasizes the gulf
thought to have won Zimbabwe's
It will be a long battle. Decades of
between them. Tsvangirai is ebullient
presidential election, beating the
misrule have turned Zimbabwe into
and casual, wears cowboy hats and has
country's tyrannical leader, Robert
an economic basket case. Inflation is
the burly figure of a man fond of food.
Mugabe. But according to most
100,000%, unemployment 80%, and up
Mugabe sports a tiny Hitler mustache
independent observers, Mugabe
to I million people (out of a population
and favors tailored suits but sometimes
had the results fixed, extending his
of I2 million) have fled to neighboring
wears shirts and baseball caps bearing
tenure as Zimbabwe's only ruler since
South Africa. "We are very conscious
images of his own face. The two men ap-
independence in 1980. Now Tsvangirai
that it's very difficult to fight dictator-
peal to different sections of Zimbabwean
is trying to avoid being robbed again.
ship with democratic means," Tsvangirai
society-Mugabe to rural villagers and
Results of the March 29 general election
says. "We're taking on the whole edifice,
liberation stalwarts, Tsvangirai to the
have not yet been announced, but
a dictatorship that has been institution-
young and the urban.
the Zimbabwe Election Commission
alized into all the organs of state. It's a
Tsvangirai is short on specifics of
indicates that his Movement for
very big mountain we have to climb."
how he would improve on Mugabe.
Democratic Change (MDC) has seized
If replacing Mugabe isn't hard enough,
The emphasis is on doing what the 84-
the parliamentary majority from
ruling the country he leaves behind will
year-old has not done. The opposition's
Mugabe's Zanu-PF. Tsvangirai is sure
be a herculean task.
manifesto promises "a sound economy,
he's won the presidential vote. But
Tsvangirai, 56, became accustomed
agriculture and livelihoods, a new con-
to responsibility at an early age. The
stitution and good governance"; leader-
son of a carpenter and bricklayer from
ship on HIV/AIDS, which has infected
'We need to shift
Gutu, south of the capital, Harare, and
2.3 million people; and empowering the
the eldest of nine, he quit school early to
youth. In a softening of Mugabe's policy,
from focusing on
work the nickel mines of Mashonaland
white-owned farms would not be handed
our independence
in northern Zimbabwe. In IO years, he
back to their former owners. Rather,
and start focusing on
rose from plant operator to general fore-
the government would curb "corrupt
our prosperity and
man. Under the white government of the
and self-serving" land seizures while re-
time, there was more than one way for a
maining committed to "systematic land
freedom.'
political aspirant to agitate for change.
reform that benefits the black people of
-MORGAN TSVANGIRAI, ZIMBABWE'S
Mugabe fought for freedom; Tsvangi-
Zimbabwe." On the question of whether
MAIN OPPOSITION LEADER
rai chose the mine-workers union. In
to hold the Mugabe regime accountable
Mugabe, 84, is demanding a recount and
1980, Mugabe, then 56, inaugurated a
for its crimes, Tsvangirai has offered to be
a runoff for the presidency, fueling fears
free Zimbabwe. Eight years later, Tsvan-
flexible in order to secure its departure.
of another vote fix. His supporters have
girai became secretary-general of the
Tsvangirai's record as Zimbabwe's
launched a campaign of violence across
Zimbabwean trade-union movement.
main opposition leader has some blem-
the country. Tsvangirai calls it "a de facto
Outraged by Mugabe's growing tyranny,
ishes. In 2005 the MDC split in two after
military coup."
Tsvangirai's unions broke with the state.
a breakaway faction questioned what
Tsvangirai is trying to fight Mugabe
The move earned him admirers and
it perceived as Tsvangirai's autocratic
in the courts and persuade other
enemies. In 1997 a group of men thought
tendencies. The division led to doubts
African countries to pressure one of
to be from Mugabe's secret service, the
about his leadership skills. "There are
the continent's last Big Men-powerful
Central Intelligence Organization, burst
some real concerns about him and his
figures who, like Mugabe, led their
into Tsvangirai's roth-floor offices in
ability," says Alex Vines, head of the
nations to independence from colonial
Harare and tried to hurl him through a
Africa Program at Chatham House in
rule but then turned into despots-
window, but Tsvangirai fought off his
London. Tsvangirai's reponse: "Every
to go quietly into the night. Zimbabwe's
attackers. He formed the opposition MDC
leader has his faults. I am not a perfect
turn, says Tsvangirai, is long overdue.
in 1999. Despite at least three other at-
human being." After 28 years of Mugabe,
Speaking to TIME by phone from an un-
tempts on his life and, according to the
Zimbabweans may be happy to settle for
disclosed location in Zimbabwe, he said,
MDC, four arrests, he has fought Mugabe
less than perfect.-WITH REPORTING BY
"We need to shift from focusing on our
in every election since.
WILLIAM LEE ADAMS/LONDON
34