
Commentary I Richard Dowden
A New Era for Africa
Anticolonial warriors like Zimbabwe's Robert Mugabe
transformed the continent. But it's time to move on
ZIMBABWE, THE PHYSICAL HEART OF
Malawian President. None
southern Africa, is once again its po-
of them have good relations
litical and spiritual battleground. As
with Tsvangirai-a populist
I write this, President Robert Mugabe
outsider whose way of think-
is trying to block democratic change
ing represents a threat to
that challenges his 28-year rule. But he
them too.
and his party, the Zimbabwe African
Yet African govern-
National Union-Patriotic Front, do not
ments have taken freedom
regard the people's votes as the arbiter
of speech and fair elections
of power-or, if they do in theory, they
more seriously recently. Most
do not accept in practice that they could
notably, President Olusegun
ever lose an election. In Mugabe's eyes,
Obasanjo of Nigeria was
his right to rule derives from his status
forced out last year when his
as the leader of the liberation movement,
term was up. At the same
the breaker of white power and the cre-
Fighter Mugabe in his days of opposing white rule in Zimbabwe
time, continent-wide reforms
ator of Zimbabwe. Whatever happens in
have improved governance.
the days to come, this is a watershed mo-
Mugabe won. For many in Africa, includ-
At the end of the last century, African
ment for the nation and for Africa as they
ing its leaders, winning the war rather
rulers, led by Mbeki and South Africa, be-
struggle to move beyond the burdens of
than the election entitled him to rule.
gan to commit to the rule of law, human
that history.
To outsiders, the peaceful transitions
rights, and free and fair elections. The
Zimbabwe, formerly Rhodesia, has
from white to black rule in Namibia,
Organisation of African Unity, little more
always been crucial to the politics of
Zimbabwe and South Africa were noth-
than a club for dictators, was reconsti-
southern Africa. Ruthlessly grabbed by
ing short of miraculous. Many expected
tuted as the African Union, with aspira-
Cecil Rhodes and a ragtag army of white
that white rule in Southern Africa
tions to rule Africa better and a mandate
adventurers in the 19th century, it be-
would end in a bloodbath. But there was
to intervene in countries suffering coups
came virtually a European country, the
a price. While the new rulers accepted
or genocidal civil wars. A Peer Review
original inhabitants driven from their
the notions of Western-style multiparty
Mechanism established a committee of
land and reduced to workers and ser-
democracy, in their hearts the liberation
the great and good to probe how coun-
vants. Although Rhodesia had one of the
movements did not contemplate that
tries are doing in terms of political and
continent's best-educated African popula-
they could lose power at the ballot box.
economic management; 26 nations have
tions, it denied Africans political power.
signed up to be reviewed.
In 1965, after Britain tried to force change
Zimbabwe is the first country to face
Mbeki was desperate to demonstrate
on the white settlers, they declared it an
this crisis. Mugabe is a bright man with
that this was an African initiative. Any
independent, white-ruled republic. Black
a sense of history. He has long known
hint that he was doing the West's bidding
majority rule? "Not in a thousand years,"
that he must step down one day-but at
would create an anticolonial backlash.
proclaimed the white leader, Ian Smith.
a time of his choosing and to a worthy
The anticolonial struggle, though won
That led to a vicious liberation war that
successor, if only he could find one. He is
over half a century ago in most of Africa,
lasted until 1979. A British-brokered
incensed at the thought of being pitched
remains one of the few unifying causes
deal brought an election in 1980, which
out of office by opposition leader Morgan
for the continent.
Tsvangirai, a man he had dismissed as an
Zimbabwe, of course, did not sign up
ill-educated rabble rouser who played no
to be reviewed, and no mechanism exists
The leaders of
role in the anticolonial struggle.
to hold it to account. The unfolding battle
South Africa, Angola,
Most of Mugabe's peers in the region
for its political soul, however, is a test for
think the same way. Thabo Mbeki of
the whole continent. Will its rulers stand
Mozambique and
South Africa, José Eduardo dos San-
by the principles they have signed up to,
Namibia are all
tos of Angola, Armando Guebuza of
or will Mugabe's personal stature and his
heirs to liberation
Mozambique and Hifikepunye Pohamba
anti-Western rhetoric trump these prin-
leaders, and have all
of Namibia are all heirs to liberation
ciples? This is a defining moment not just
leaders. They have done their utmost
for Zimbabwe but for Africa.
done their utmost to
to protect-even support-Mugabe in
protect Mugabe
his battle against the West. So has the
Dowden is director of the Royal African Society
TIME April 14, 2008
21