
37
Serabi Gold plc
Report and Accounts 2014
Felipe Swett
Senior Management in Brazil
Non-Executive
Felipe is a Partner and heads the asset management team at Asset
Ulisses Melo
Chile, a Chilean-based investment bank. Mr. Swett joined Asset Chile
General Manager
in 2003 as an analyst and as part of the corporate finance team and
Ulisses, who was previously the Chief Financial Officer of Serabi
has led the Asset Management division since 2010.
Mineração Limitada in Brazil, took over the role of General Manager
in April 2009. He has overall responsibility for the day-to-day affairs
Felipe holds a degree in Civil Engineering with a Diploma in
of Serabi in Brazil. Prior to joining Serabi he spent five years working
Environmental Engineering from the Pontificia Universidad Católica
with the international accounting firm Arthur Andersen and a further
de Chile and an MBA from the Kellogg School of Management,
ten years working with Samarco Mineração, Companhia de Fomento
Northwestern University.
Mineral and Rio Capim Caulim S/A as Controller and Finance Director.
Melvyn Williams
Ulisses is a graduate in Economics and Business Administration from
the University of PUC Minas Gerais and holds a MBA from the University
Non-Executive
Mel Williams was, until June 2011, the Chief Financial Officer and Senior
of Fundação Dom Cabral
Vice President of Finance and Corporate Development of Brigus Gold.
Mr. Williams has over 40 years of financial experience, much of that
time spent within the mining industry. From November 2003 through
January 2004, Mr. Williams served as Chief Financial Officer of Atlantico
Gold, a private Brazilian mining company which held the Amapari gold
project, and was sold to Wheaton River Minerals Ltd. in January 2004.
From 2000 to November 2003, he served as Chief Financial Officer of
TVX Gold Inc., a gold mining company with five operating mines and
an advanced development project in Greece His background also
includes services with Star Mining Corporation, LAC North America,
Riominas LSDA and Rossing Uranium (both of which are Rio Tinto
subsidiaries).
He is a Chartered Certified Accountant and received an MBA from
Cranfield in the United Kingdom Mel is also a Director of Western
Troy Capital Resources