
approximately $6.2 million, compared to $7.6 million in fiscal 2012 and $13.3 million in fiscal 2011, which
includes amounts set aside or accrued to provide cash bonuses, pension, retirement or similar benefits, but does
not include amounts expended by us for automobiles made available to such persons, expenses (including
business travel, professional and business association dues) or other fringe benefits. During fiscal 2013, we
granted to such persons options to purchase an aggregate of 477,341 ordinary shares at a weighted average price
of $35.19 per share with vesting generally over four-year terms and expiring ten years from the date of grant, and
an aggregate of 302,912 restricted shares typically subject to three to four-year vesting, and in the case of our
directors, no vesting restrictions. All options and restricted share awards were granted pursuant to our 1998 Stock
Option and Incentive Plan, as amended See discussion below - "Share Ownership - Employee Stock Option
and Incentive Plan."
Board Practices
Ten directors currently serve on our Board of Directors, all of whom were elected at our annual meeting of
shareholders on January 31, 2013. All directors hold office until the next annual meeting of our shareholders,
which generally is in January or February of each calendar year, or until their respective successors are duly
elected and qualified or their positions are earlier vacated by resignation or otherwise.
The executive officers of Amdocs Limited and each of its subsidiaries are elected by the board of directors
of the relevant company on an annual basis and serve until the next annual meeting of such board of directors or
until their respective successors have been duly elected and qualified or their positions are earlier vacated by
resignation or otherwise
Other than the employment agreement between us and our President and Chief Executive Officer, which
provides for immediate cash severance upon termination of employment, there are currently no service contracts
in effect between us and any of our directors providing for immediate cash severance upon termination of their
employment
Board Committees
Our Board of Directors maintains four committees as set forth below. Members of each committee are
appointed by the Board of Directors
The Audit Committee reviews, acts on and reports to the Board of Directors with respect to various auditing
and accounting matters, including the selection of our independent registered public accounting firm, the scope
of the annual audits, fees to be paid to. and the performance of, such public accounting firm. and assists with the
Board of Directors' oversight of our accounting practices, financial statement integrity and compliance with legal
and regulatory requirements, including establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, risk assessment and risk management The current members of our Audit Committee are
Messrs. Gardner (Chair), Brodsky, LeFave and Olswang, all of whom are independent directors, as defined by
the rules of the NYSE, and pursuant to the categorical director independence standards adopted by our Board of
Directors. The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Gardner is an "audit committee financial expert" as
defined by rules promulgated by the SEC, and that each member of the Audit Committee is financially literate as
required by the rules of the NYSE. The Audit Committee written charter is available on our website
at www.amdocs.com.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee identifies individuals qualified to become members
of our Board of Directors, recommends to the Board of Directors the persons to be nominated for election as
directors at the annual general meeting of shareholders, develops and makes recommendations to the Board of
Directors regarding our corporate governance principles and oversees the evaluations of our Board of Directors
The current members of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are Messrs. Olswang (Chair),
Brodsky and Kahan, all of whom are independent directors, as required by the NYSE listing standards, and
pursuant to the categorical director independence standards adopted by our Board of Directors. The Nominating
and Corporate Governance Committee written charter is available on our website at www.amdocs.com. The
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee has approved corporate governance guidelines that are also
available on our website at www.amdocs.com
49