
is sufficiently large, cleaning may be accomplished
using this equipment together with a solution of steam-
Pit has been cleaned up to the
extent that all loose corrosion
cleaning compound On small areas, any method may
products have been removed
be used that assures complete rinsing of the cleaned
area. Use care to dispose of the stripped residue in
accordance with environmental laws.
CORROSION DAMAGE BEFORE REWORK
Fairing or Blending Reworked Areas
All depressions resulting from corrosion rework must be
faired or blended with the surrounding surface. Fairing can
be accomplished as follows:
1. Remove rough edges and all corrosion from the
damaged area. All dish-outs must be elliptically
Rough edges have been
smoothed and all corrosion
Dish-out
shaped with the major axis running spanwise on wings
has been removed However,
after blending
and horizontal stabilizers, longitudinally on fuselages,
depression has not been shaped.
and vertically on vertical stabilizers.
2.
In critical and highly stressed areas, all pits remaining
Figure 8-24. Blend of corrosion as a single depression.
after the removal of corrosion products must be
blended out to prevent stress risers that may cause
Rework depressions by forming smoothly blended dish-outs,
stress corrosion cracking. [Figure 8-23) On a non-
using a ratio of 20:1. length to depth. / Figure 8-24] In areas
critical structure, it is not necessary to blend out pits
having closely-spaced, multiple pits, intervening material
remaining after removal of corrosion products by
must be removed to minimize surface irregularity or
abrasive blasting, since this results in unnecessary
waviness. [Figure 8-25) Steel nut-plates and steel fasteners
metal removal.
are to be removed before blending corrosion out of aluminum
structure. Steel or copper particles embedded in aluminum
Location of corrosion pits
Width of cleaned up area
(10 times depth min)
TOP VIEW
TRUE PERSPECTIVE
Length of cleaned up area
(20 times depth min)
Depth of cleaned up of corrosion
CROSS SECTION
NOT ACCEPTABLE
ACCEPTABLE
Figure 8-23. Blending or blending corrosion damage.
8-16