
from the deuteron when deep inelastic scattering from the neutron is performed. This
technique minimizes off-shell effects since at very low momentum the neutron is practically
a spectator in the deuteron. Another method (Afnan et al., 2000, 2003; Bissey et al., 2001;
Petratos et al., 2006) is to perform deep inelastic scattering from 3He and 3H at very high T.
In forming the ratio of the scattering rates from these two nuclei, the nuclear effects cancel
to a high degree in extracting the Fn /F2 ratio.
Two proposed methods avoid nuclear effects altogether. Both a ratio of charge-current
neutrino to antineutrino scattering from the proton and parity-violating deep inelastic elec-
tron scattering at high x from the proton are sensitive to the d/u ratio. Nevertheless, both
of these methods are fraught with technical difficulties, particularly at high T.
The primary problem with measuring the neutron structure function is that there exists
no practical free neutron target. Typically, a deuteron target is employed in experiments.
The neutron structure function is then extracted from a measurement of the proton and
deuteron structure functions by employing a model for the deuteron wave function. As
an example, we consider the covariant approach of (Thomas and Melnitchouk, 1998). In
this case, the proton and neutron structure functions are convoluted with a nucleon density
function in the deuteron. The neutron is also off shell, SO that a model for the off-shell
behavior is necessary. Then the expression for the deuteron structure function is given by
P(+
(II.47)
where PN/D(y) is the probability of finding a nucleon of momentum y' in the deuteron
and goff FP is the off shell correction. The extraction process is iterative. First, the off-
shell effect is subtracted from the measured deuteron structure function Then the proton
structure function, convoluted as indicated by the first term in Eq. (11.47), is subtracted from
the remainder, leaving the convoluted neutron structure function. The neutron structure
function is then deconvoluted to give the neutron structure function. The last three steps
are then repeated until convergence is achieved.
The results (Thomas and Melnitchouk, 1998) of this procedure for the ratio of the neutron
to proton structure functions are shown in Fig. II.10. In this work a covariant deuteron
wave function and a consistent off-shell correction were used (Melnitchouk et al., 1994).
Another application (Burov et al., 2004) of the covariant approach indicates that data for
the deuteron structure function at very high I are essential for constraining the high I
28