
Construction of Giresun Wastewater Treatment Plant
Tender Dossier
Volume 3 Employer's Requirements
Section 8: Electrical Works
117 of 124
All functions shall be simulated so electrical connections the software and correct parameter settings
can be verified.
The real check of the results will be done manually. A selection of output data will be made, and
manual recalculation of this output data will be performed. The documentation will include all the
intermediate results.
The system has to be designed in a structure with well-defined modules or classes. The classes shall be
defined with interfaces where inputs and outputs are available for investigation. A complete test is
divided into several accounts. The number of accounts shall be sufficiently high to allow verification
of the sequence between two accounts by use of a pocket calculator.
The criteria for passing the final test will be:
Manual calculation proving correct relations between all generated accounts.
8.24.10Security
The purpose of this test is to verify correct security functions in accordance with the requirements.
A number of security levels have been specified.
For each security level, the following has to be verified:
A person at each level (if defined) shall be able to log into the system and have access to the
system in accordance with his/her status. It shall also be verified that the user does not have
access to part of the system not covered by his/her rights. This test shall be performed for a
person at each level.
Each person defined shall be able to change his/her own password.
The administrator shall be able to define and remove users and to change a user's password. If
specified, the administrator shall be able to look into database structures, as well.
The designer shall be able to look into database structures and source codes. The test of access to
source code can be carried out on the development system, only.
The criteria for passing the final acceptance test will be:
The number of users has been successfully defined at different levels.
A user has successfully logged in and out.
A user successfully changed his/her own password.
The administrator has successfully changed the password of a user.
The system has been successfully accessed at the different levels.
8.24.11 Flexibility
The purpose of this task is to verify that the structure of the system is suitable for upgrading to
additional functionality. The source code and programmers' documentation shall be investigated.
The test shall verify that:
The program and database structure of the program developed have well defined interfaces in
order to add new modules and new technical solutions under existing SCADA systems.
8_Vol3_d4.3_Section 8 electrical works_en_GIR.rev8.doc