
AIM
12/31/20
Form at http://www.faa.gov/air_traffic/nas/
surface or buried under taxiways and ramps. These
gps_reports/
materials generate a magnetic flux field that can be
C. In aircraft equipped with more than one avionics
sensed by the aircraft's compass system flux detector
receiver, there are many combinations of potential
or "gate", which can cause the aircraft's system to
interference between units that could cause
align with the material's magnetic field rather than
erroneous navigation indications, or complete or
the earth's natural magnetic field. The system's
partial blanking out of the display.
erroneous heading may not self-correct. Prior to take
off pilots should be aware that a heading
NOTE-
misalignment may have occurred during taxi. Pilots
GPS interference or outages associated with known
are encouraged to follow the manufacturer's or other
testing NOTAMs should not be reported to ATC.
appropriate procedures to correct possible heading
misalignment before take off is commenced.
1-1-14. LORAN
1-1-16. Doppler Radar
NOTE-
In accordance with the 2010 DHS Appropriations Act, the
Doppler Radar is a semiautomatic self-contained
U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) terminated the transmission of
dead reckoning navigation system (radar sensor plus
all U.S. LORAN-C signals on 08 eb 2010. The USCG also
computer) which is not continuously dependent on
terminated the transmission of the Russian American
information derived from ground based or external
signals on 01 Aug 2010, and the Canadian LORAN-C
aids. The system employs radar signals to detect and
signals on 03 Aug 2010. For more information, visit
measure ground speed and drift angle, using the
http://www.navcen.uscg.gov. Operators should also note
aircraft compass system as its directional reference.
that TSO-C60b, AIRBORNE AREA NAVIGATION
Doppler is less accurate than INS, however, and the
EQUIPMENT USING LORAN- INPUTS, has been
use of an external reference is required for periodic
canceled by the FAA.
updates if acceptable position accuracy is to be
achieved on long range flights.
1-1-15. Inertial Reference Unit (IRU),
Inertial Navigation System (INS), and
1-1-17. Global Positioning System (GPS)
Attitude Heading Reference System (AHRS)
a. System Overview
a. IRUs are self-contained systems comprised of
1. System Description. The Global Positioning
gyros and accelerometers that provide aircraft
System is a space-based radio navigation system
attitude (pitch, roll, and heading), position, and
used to determine precise position anywhere in the
velocity information in response to signals resulting
world. The 24 satellite constellation is designed to
from inertial effects on system components. Once
ensure at least five satellites are always visible to a
aligned with a known position, IRUs continuously
user worldwide. A minimum of four satellites is
calculate position and velocity. IRU position
necessary for receivers to establish an accurate
accuracy decays with time. This degradation is
three-dimensional position. The receiver uses data
known as "drift."
from satellites above the mask angle (the lowest
b. INSs combine the components of an IRU with
angle above the horizon at which a receiver can use
a satellite). The Department of Defense (DOD) is
an internal navigation computer. By programming a
responsible for operating the GPS satellite constella-
series of waypoints, these systems will navigate along
a predetermined track.
tion and monitors the GPS satellites to ensure proper
operation. Each satellite's orbital parameters (eph-
C. AHRSs are electronic devices that provide
emeris data) are sent to each satellite for broadcast as
attitude information to aircraft systems such as
part of the data message embedded in the GPS signal.
weather radar and autopilot, but do not directly
The GPS coordinate system is the Cartesian
compute position information.
earth-centered, earth-fixed coordinates as specified
in the World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS-84).
d. Aircraft equipped with slaved compass systems
may be susceptible to heading errors caused by
2. System Availability and Reliability.
exposure to magnetic field disturbances (flux fields)
(a) The status of GPS satellites is broadcast as
found in materials that are commonly located on the
part of the data message transmitted by the GPS
1-1-18
Navigation Aids