
MongoDB Documentation, Release 3.0.4
Note: While MongoDB Enterprise does support Kerberos authentication, Kerberos is not supported in HTTP status
interface in any version of MongoDB.
Changed in version 3.0.
Neither the HTTP status interface nor the REST API support the SCRAM-SHA-1 (page 321) challenge-response user
authentication mechanism introduced in version 3.0.
REST API
The REST API to MongoDB provides additional information and write access on top of the HTTP status interface.
While the REST API does not provide any support for insert, update, or remove operations, it does provide adminis-
trative access, and its accessibility represents a vulnerability in a secure environment The REST interface is disabled
by default, and is not recommended for production use.
If you must use the REST API, please control and limit access to the REST API. The REST API does not include any
support for authentication, even when running with authorization enabled
See the following documents for instructions on restricting access to the REST API interface:
Configure Linux iptables Firewall for MongoDB (page 335)
Configure Windows netsh Firewall for MongoDB (page 339)
6.2.6 Auditing
New in version 2.6.
MongoDB Enterprise includes an auditing capability for mongod and mongos instances. The auditing facility allows
administrators and users to track system activity for deployments with multiple users and applications. The auditing
facility can write audit events to the console. the syslog. a JSON file. or a BSON file.
Audit Events and Filter
To enable auditing for MongoDB Enterprise, see Configure System Events Auditing (page 398).
Once enabled. the auditing system can record the following operations:
schema (DDL),
replica set,
authentication and authorization and
general operations.
For details on the audit log messages, see System Event Audit Messages (page 424).
By default, the auditing system records all these operations; however, you can set up filters (page 400) to restrict the
events captured. To set up filters, see Configure Audit Filters (page 400).
330
Chapter 6. Security