
2
ture of L is treated as a single P3/2 proton in a central
eral, be unambiguously fixed in the past and future which
nuclear potential, the variation Am of mass with direc-
leads to |in ># |out >, because the state |in > is unsta-
tion, if it exists, was found to satisfy Am < 10-20
This
ble against decay into many particle |out > states due
proves that there is no anisotropy of mass which is due
to interaction processes allowed by lack of Poincare in-
to the effects of mass in our galaxy. If the curvature of
variance. Non-trivial Bogolubov transformation between
Riemannian space is associated with gravitational inter-
past and future positive frequency modes implies that
action then it would indicate an universal feature equally
particles are created from the vacuum and this is one of
suitable for action on all the matter fields at once. Then
the reasons for |in ># |out >. Note that a remarkable
another objection is that this is rather applicable only
surge of activity of investigations towards an extension of
for gravity but not for inertia since the inertia depends
GR has arisen recently. They are expressible geometri-
solely on the state of motion of individual test particle
cally in the language of fundamental structure known as
or coordinate frame of interest. So, the curvature arisen
a fiber bundle. This provides an unified picture of gravity
due to acceleration of coordinate frame of interest relates
modified models based on several Lie groups, see e.g. 12
to this coordinate system itself and does not acts at once
29 All these approaches have their own advantages, but
on all the other systems or matter fields. Such inter-
in the same time they are subject to many uncertainties.
esting aspects which deserve further investigations, un-
Currently no single theory has been uniquely accepted as
fortunately, have attracted little attention in subsequent
the convincing gauge theory of gravitation, which will be
developments. This state of affairs has not much changed
able successfully to address the aforementioned problems.
up to present. as well as the RLI still remain unknown.
The present paper aims to fill this gap. Furnishing justi-
fication for introduction of the Principle of Equivalence,
A. Rational
in addition to those of available experimental verifica-
tions we must also assign a high importance to the
prove on the theoretical basis.
To innovate the solution to the problems involved, in
this paper we develop on the general gauge principle
Another purpose of present article is to explore the re-
(GGP), an early version of which is given in 11.30.31
arrangement of vacuum state in gravity at huge energies,
The GGP accounts for gravitation gauge group GR gen-
which will be of vital interest for the physics of super-
erated by hidden local internal symmetries implemented
dense matter in very compact astrophysical sources
on the flat space M6. Involving the auxiliary flat space
11 and references therein Note that the Riemannian
M6. with the whole set of well-defined Killing's vectors,
space interacting quantum field theory cannot be a sat-
just has a single aim as a guiding tool in dealing with an
isfactory ground for addressing this question. The ge-
intricate `jungle' of curved geometry. In this paper much
ometrical interpretation of gravitation arisen from the
more will be done (Sect.2) to make clear and rigorous
dual character of the metrical tensor in its metrical and
these early results and formulations The following part
gravitational aspects, is a noteworthy result of GR. Al-
of the present paper will be the original contribution
though this interpretation has advantage in solving the
whereas we relate the group GR to the Lie group Gp of
problems of cosmology, nevertheless such a distinction of
distortion of local internal properties of flat space M6.
gravitational field among the fields yields the difficulties
It can be achieved by nonlinear realization of the group
in the unified theories of all interactions of elementary
GD in the framework of method of phenomenological La-
particles, and in quantization of gravitation. Therefore,
grangians. This approach was originally introduced by
the GR as a geometrized theory of gravitation clashes
Coleman, Wess and Zumino 34 in the context
of
in-
from the very outset with basic principles of field theory.
ternal symmetry groups. It was later extended to the case
This rather stems from the fact that Riemannian geome-
of spacetime symmetries by Isham, Salam, and Strathdee
try, in general, does not admit a group of isometries, i.e.,
considering the nonlinear action of GL(4,R) mod
Poincare transformations no longer act as isometries and,
the Lorentz subgroup, see 15 and references therein for
for example, it is impossible to define energy-momentum
a comprehensive review. We study geometrical structure
as Noether local currents related to exact symmetries.
of the space of parameters in terms of Cartan's calculus
This posed severe problems in Riemannian space inter-
of exterior forms and derive the Maurer-Cartan's struc-
acting quantum field theory. The major unsolved prob-
ture equations. We derive key relation which uniquely
lem is the non-uniqueness of the physical vacuum and
determines, for given distortion field, the six angles of
associated Fock space. Actually, a peculiar shortcoming
distortion rotations around each axes of the M6. We
of the interacting quantum field theory in curved space-
treat distortion fields as Goldstone fields to which the
time is the following two key questions to be addressed
metric and connection are related. We infer group in-
yet: a) an absence of the definitive concept of space-
variants and calculate conserved currents. The metric
like separated points, particularly, in canonical approach,
is no more a fundamental dynamical field. The funda-
and the 'light-cone' structure at each spacetime point: b)
mental field is distortion gauge field and, thus, both the
the separation of positive- and negative-frequencies for
actions and the equations of motion depend on the con-
completeness of the Hilbert-space description. Due to it,
cept of gauge potential. The metric and connection may
a definition of positive frequency modes cannot. in gen-
be derived from this gauge field. To test the proposed