
12
Ewald Puchwein, Volker Springel, Debora Sijacki, & Klaus Dolag
1x105
redshift z of infall
satellite galaxies
65 3
2 1.5
1
0.5
0.25
0
BCG
0.3
ICL
satellite galaxies
BCG
0.25
ICL
8x104
0.2
0.15
6x104
0.1
0.05
4x104
O
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
scale factor a of infall
Figure 12. Distribution (fraction per bin, each histogram is nor-
2x104
malized to unity) of stars according to the time of their infall into
the forming cluster. Results are shown for stars assigned to satel-
lite galaxies, the BCG, and the ICL at redshift = = O. Method
4 was used for making a distinction between BCG and ICL. All
curves were averaged over four clusters that were simulated with
O
AGN. The same weight was used for each of them
0.1
1
10
100
1000
distance r from halo centre [kpc/h]
liberated and joins the ICL increases with the galaxy's stel-
lar mass. The most massive galaxies are also most likely to
Figure 11. Distance of newly formed stars from the centres of
the halos in which they were formed Distributions are given for
merge with the BCG, as can be seen by the strong increase
stars that at = = O end up in satellite galaxies, the BCG. and
of the BCG fraction Accordingly, the fraction of stars that
the ICL of a M cluster. Method 4 was used for making
remains bound to an infalling galaxy decreases with stellar
a distinction between BCG and ICL. Interestingly, a significant
mass. This can be understood due to the shorter dynami-
fraction of intracluster stars is not formed in halo centres. The
cal friction timescale for massive galaxies, while at the same
increase of all distributions with distance for , values smaller
time their tidal radius is larger.
than ~ 1h- kpc is due to the increasing volume per radial bin.
Furthermore, we investigated what fraction of intraclus-
ter stars comes from completely dissolved galaxies. We did
this by constructing a merger tree. For each SUBFIND (sub-
the centre. This further suggests that it takes a significant
)halo found in one snapshot we searched for the descendant
amount of time after the infall of a galaxy into a cluster
(sub-)halo in the next snapshot that contains the largest
until stars are efficiently stripped from it. Keeping this in
number of the object's original star particles. In case this
mind, it is not at all surprising that Murante et al.
(2007)
would yield the cluster's main halo as descendant, we also
find that most of the stripping happens at = < 1.
check which subhalo of the cluster contains the largest num-
We also checked the stellar masses of the galaxies in
ber of the satellite galaxy's stars. If this subhalo still con-
which the different components (satellite galaxy, BCG, and
tains more than 10% of the original galaxy's star particles
ICL stars) resided when they fell into the forming cluster.
we consider it as the descendant, and not the cluster's main
This is illustrated in Fig.[ The lower panel shows the dis-
halo. This allows us to follow satellite galaxies even when
tribution of all infalling stars according to the stellar mass
they are strongly tidally stripped between two subsequent
of the galaxy in which they fell into the cluster. The upper
simulation snapshots.
panel shows for each stellar mass bin of the infalling galaxy
We find that the fraction of intracluster stars that comes
the fraction of stars that at z = 0 reside in the cluster's satel-
from dissolved galaxies, i.e. galaxies that either merged with
lite galaxies, the BCG, and the ICL. Again, the results were
the BCG or were completely tidally disrupted, depends on
averaged over four clusters to reduce noise in the curves.
halo mass. While we have performed this analysis only for
For stellar masses below ~ 4 X 10 Mo, the fraction of
four clusters, we find a systematic trend where this fraction
stars that get stripped from an infalling galaxy and become
drops from 75% for a 5 X 1013 h- M group to 22% for
a
intracluster stars strongly increases in our simulations This
3 X 1014 Mo cluster.
is because these objects are poorly resolved, as also shown
As discussed above, the mean fraction of stars that gets
by our analysis of the convergence of the properties of the
stripped from an infalling galaxy and becomes part of the
satellite galaxy population in Sect.
However, looking at
ICL depends on the mass of the galaxy. On the other hand,
the lower panel we see that only very few stars fall into the
this also means that the fraction of intracluster stars may
cluster in such small, poorly resolved galaxies. Their disrup-
be biased in simulations that do not reproduce the correct
tion does therefore not significantly bias our predictions for
galaxy stellar mass function. Getting the latter right in cos-
the ICL. On the other hand, for more massive and well re-
mological hydrodynamical simulations is, however, a long-
solved galaxies, we find that the fraction of stars that gets
standing problem which has not yet been solved satisfac-
© 0000 RAS, MNRAS 000, 000-000