
Table of Contents
The following table presents the sensitivity of our projected pension benefit obligation ("PBO"), accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO"), deficit ("Deficit")
and 2020 pension expense to the following changes in key assumptions:
Increase / (Decrease) at
Increase
December 31, 2020
(Decrease)
PBO
ABO
2020 Expense
Assumption:
Increase in discount rate of 0.5%
$
(87) $
(81)
$
(3)
Decrease in discount rate of 0.5%
100
93
4
Increase in estimated return on assets of 1.0%
N/A
N/A
(B)
Decrease in estimated return on assets of 1.0%
N/A
N/A
8
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill
Our reporting units in continuing operations include epoxy, versatics and forest products. Our reporting units are generally one level below our operating
segments for which discrete financial information is available and reviewed by segment management However, components of an operating segment can be
aggregated as one reporting unit if the components have similar economic characteristics Our consolidated goodwill balance from continuing operations was $164
as
of
December 31. 2020, including $127 related to the forest products reporting unit, $36 related to the versatics reporting unit and $1 related to the epoxy
reporting unit.
We test goodwill annually for impairment of value or more frequently when potential impairment triggering events are present. Our annual impairment
testing date is October 1. Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. We use a weighted market
and income approach to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. The market approach is a comparable analysis technique commonly used in the investment
banking and private equity industries based on the EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes. depreciation and amortization) multiple technique, and the
income approach is based on a discounted cash flow model The key assumptions and estimates utilized in the market and income approaches primarily include
market multiples, discount rates and future levels of revenue growth and operating margins, and to a lesser extent, estimates and assumptions related to working
capital investment taxes, depreciation and amortization and capital spending projections. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair
value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference
As of October 1. 2020 and 2019, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units containing goodwill were deemed to be in excess of the carrying
amount of assets and liabilities assigned to each unit. The step-up of fixed and intangible asset values during fresh start accounting resulted in an increase of the
carrying amounts of net assets for the Company's reporting units that have goodwill, thereby reducing the amount of headroom between the fair value and carrying
value of these reporting units. As a result, future unfavorable changes to business results and/or discounted cash flows for these reporting units are more likely to
result in asset impairments
Other Intangible Assets
We review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable Factors
that
may be a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable. include goodwill impairment,
idling of a plant and a reduction to the estimated useful life. We may in the future be required to record a significant charge in our consolidated
financial
statements
during the period in which any impairment of our amortizable intangible assets is determined negatively affecting our results of operations.
Long-Lived Assets
As events warrant we evaluate the recoverability of long-lived assets, other than goodwill, by assessing whether the carrying value can be recovered over
their remaining useful lives through the expected future undiscounted operating cash flows of the underlying business Our evaluation of long-lived asset
recoverability includes our operating and financing lease right of use assets. Impairment indicators include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the
market price of a long-lived asset; a significant adverse change in the manner in which the asset is being used or in its physical condition: a significant adverse
change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset: an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount
originally expected for the acquisition or construction of a long-lived asset: current period operating or cash flow losses combined with a history of operating or cash
flow losses associated with the use of the asset; or a current expectation that it is more likely than not that a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of
significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. As a result future decisions to change our manufacturing process, exit certain businesses. reduce
excess capacity, temporarily idle facilities and close facilities could result in material impairment charges. Long-lived assets are grouped together at the lowest level
for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of cash flows of other groups of long-lived assets. Any impairment loss that may be required is determined
by comparing the carrying value of the assets to their estimated fair value. We do not have any indefinite-lived intangible assets, other than goodwill
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
See
Note 2 in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a detailed description of recently issued accounting pronouncements.
Hexion Inc. I 57 I 2020 Form 10-K