
CHAPTER 2
AERODYNAMICS OF FLIGHT
Chapters 2 and 3 of the Pilot's Handbook of Aeronau-
Longitudinal axis is an imaginary line about which
tical Knowledge (FAA-H-8083-25) apply to powered
the aircraft rolls; it is also called the roll axis. The
parachutes and are a prerequisite to reading this book.
longitudinal axis is not a fixed line through the cart
This chapter will focus on the aerodynamic fundamen-
because the angle of incidence changes in turbulence
tals unique to powered parachute (PPC) operations.
and with loading changes.
Aerodynamic Terms
Angle of incidence is the angle formed by the chord
line of the wing and the longitudinal axis of the PPC
Airfoil is the term used for surfaces on a powered
cart. The cart longitudinal axis is not the same as the
parachute that produce lift, typically the wing itself.
aerodynamic longitudinal axis defined in the previous
Although many different airfoil designs exist, all air-
paragraph. [Figure 2-2] Unlike an airplane, the angle
foils produce lift in a similar manner.
of incidence can change in flight because of the flex-
ible line attachment between the wing and the cart.
Camber refers to the curvature of a wing when look-
Angle of incidence can change for different types of
ing at a cross section. A wing possesses upper cam-
flight configurations and PPC designs; this is covered
ber on its top surface and lower camber on its bottom
in detail in the "Moments" section.
surface. Leading edge describes the forward edge of
the airfoil. The rear edge of the airfoil is called the
Trim angle is the angle between the chord line of the
trailing edge. The chord line is an imaginary straight
wing and the horizontal plane when the PPC is in non-
line drawn from the leading edge to the trailing edge.
powered gliding flight. [Figure 2-3] The PPC wing is
[Figure 2-1]
designed at a slight angle, with the chord line inclined
downward to the horizontal plane to maintain the
Leading edge
manufacturer-designed angle of attack during gliding,
level and climbing flight. This "trim angle" is built
into the powered parachute by the manufacturer and
Upper
camber
Chord line
cannot be adjusted by the pilot moving the controls.
Lower camber
Pitch angle is the angle the PPC wing chord makes
Trailing edge
Flight path
with the horizontal plane. Pitch angle is what you can
see. Many pilots confuse the pitch angle, which you
Relative wind
can easily see and feel, with the angle of attack which
may not be as perceptible. [Figure 2-4] For example,
Figure 2-1. Aerodynamic terms of an airfoil.
the pitch angle in an engine-out glide could be minus
Relative wind is the direction of the airflow with re-
8 degrees, in level flight 10 degrees above the hori-
spect to the wing; it is usually parallel to and opposite
zon, and in a climb it could be 28 degrees above the
the PPC flight path. Relative wind may be affected
horizon. These are significantly different angles you
by movement of the PPC through the air, as well as by
easily see. Pitch angles are covered in greater detail
all forms of unstable, disturbed air such as wind shear,
in Chapter 6.
thermals, turbulence, and mountain rotors. When a
Deck angle is the angle of the cart's lower frame
PPC is flying through undisturbed air, the relative
(from the front wheel to the rear wheels), to the land-
wind is parallel to and opposite the flight path.
ing surface. The deck on the lower part of the conven-
Angle of attack is the angle between the relative wind
tional cart frame can be used to visualize deck angle.
and the wing chord line. [Figure 2-2]
An imaginary line between the front and back wheel
axles can also be used on unconventional carts.
2-1