
the vectors of propeller forces in Figure 5-44. each section of
a propeller blade moves downward and forward The angle
at which this air (relative wind) strikes the propeller blade
is its AOA. The air deflection produced by this angle causes
the dynamic pressure at the engine side of the propeller blade
to be greater than atmospheric pressure, thus creating thrust.
The shape of the blade also creates thrust because it is
cambered like the airfoil shape of a wing. As the air flows
past the propeller, the pressure on one side is less than that
Figure 5-43. Airfoil sections of propeller blade.
on the other. As in a wing. a reaction force is produced in the
direction of the lesser pressure. The airflow over the wing
often used interchangeably. An increase or decrease in one is
has less pressure, and the force (lift) is upward In the case
usually associated with an increase or decrease in the other.
of the propeller, which is mounted in a vertical instead of a
The pitch of a propeller may be designated in inches. A
horizontal plane, the area of decreased pressure is in front of
propeller designated as a "74-48" would be 74 inches in
the propeller. and the force (thrust) is in a forward direction.
length and have an effective pitch of 48 inches. The pitch
Aerodynamically, thrust is the result of the propeller shape
and the AOA of the blade.
is the distance in inches, which the propeller would screw
through the air in one revolution if there were no slippage.
Thrust can be considered also in terms of the mass of air
When specifying a fixed-pitch propeller for a new type of
handled by the propeller. In these terms, thrust equals mass
aircraft, the manufacturer usually selects one with a pitch
of air handled multiplied by slipstream velocity minus
that operates efficiently at the expected cruising speed of the
velocity of the aircraft. The power expended in producing
aircraft. Every fixed-pitch propeller must be a compromise
thrust depends on the rate of air mass movement. On average,
because it can be efficient at only a given combination of
thrust constitutes approximately 80 percent of the torque (total
airspeed and revolutions per minute (rpm). Pilots cannot
horsepower absorbed by the propeller). The other 20 percent
change this combination in flight.
is lost in friction and slippage. For any speed of rotation,
the horsepower absorbed by the propeller balances the
When the aircraft is at rest on the ground with the engine
horsepower delivered by the engine. For any single revolution
operating, or moving slowly at the beginning of takeoff.
of the propeller, the amount of air handled depends on the
the propeller efficiency is very low because the propeller is
blade angle, which determines how big a "bite" of air the
restrained from advancing with sufficient speed to permit
propeller takes. Thus, the blade angle is an excellent means of
its fixed-pitch blades to reach their full efficiency. In this
adjusting the load on the propeller to control the engine rpm.
situation. each propeller blade is turning through the air at
an AOA that produces relatively little thrust for the amount
The blade angle is also an excellent method of adjusting the
of power required to turn it.
AOA of the propeller. On constant-speed propellers, the blade
angle must be adjusted to provide the most efficient AOA at
To understand the action of a propeller, consider first its
all engine and aircraft speeds. Lift versus drag curves, which
motion. which is both rotational and forward. As shown by
are drawn for propellers as well as wings, indicate that the
most efficient AOA is small, varying from +2° to +4°. The
actual blade angle necessary to maintain this small AOA
varies with the forward speed of the aircraft.
Thrust
Fixed-pitch and ground-adjustable propellers are designed
for best efficiency at one rotation and forward speed. They
are designed for a given aircraft and engine combination A
propeller may be used that provides the maximum efficiency
for takeoff. climb. cruise, or high-speed flight. Any change in
these conditions results in lowering the efficiency of both the
Chord line
propeller and the engine. Since the efficiency of any machine
Forward velocity
Relative wind
is the ratio of the useful power output to the actual power
input. propeller efficiency is the ratio of thrust horsepower
Figure 5-44. Propeller blade angle.
to brake horsepower. Propeller efficiency varies from 50 to
5-29