
abrupt collective movement could lead to mast bumping in
8. Failure to maintain rotor rpm within the RFM
some rotorcraft with teetering rotor systems.
recommended range.
9.
Excessive yaw when increasing collective to slow rate
Energy is a very important property of all rotating
of descent during power recovery autorotations.
components, and the kinetic energy stored in the rotor system
is used to cushion the landing. More lift is produced at the
10. During power recovery autorotations, a delay in
bottom of an autorotation by raising the collective, which
reapplying power.
increases the angle of attack of the blades. The rotor rpm will
11. Initial collective pull either too high or too low.
also rapidly decay at this point and it is essential to properly
12. Improper flare (too much or not enough).
time the flare and the final collective pull to fully arrest the
descent and cushion the landing. Upon arriving into the
13. Flaring too low or too high (AGL).
course line prior to the flare, the scan should focus almost
14. Failure to maintain heading when reapplying power.
entirely outside. The scan should include:
15. Not landing with a level attitude.
The horizon for attitude, ground track, and nose
16. Landing with aircraft not aligned with the direction
alignment;
of travel.
the altitude to set the flare and for closure (groundspeed):
and
17. Insufficient collective cushioning during full
autorotations
the instrument cross-check of airspeed, rotor rpm, and
18. Abrupt control inputs on touchdown during full
engine rpm in the descent.
autorotations.
Every autorotational flare will be different depending on the
Practice Autorotation with a Power Recovery
existing wind conditions, airspeed, density altitude (DA).
and the aircraft gross weight. A pilot operating a helicopter
A power recovery is used to terminate practice autorotations
at a high DA needs to take into account the effects on the
at a point prior to actual touchdown. After the power
control of the helicopter when recovering from an aborted
recovery, a landing can be made or a go-around initiated
autorotation
Technique (How to Practice)
Some effects to consider are:
At approximately 3-15 feet landing gear height AGL,
depending upon the helicopter being used, begin to level the
Higher rate of descent.
helicopter with forward cyclic control. Avoid excessive nose-
Reduced rotor rpm builds in autorotation
high. tail-low attitude below 10 feet. Just prior to achieving
Low initial rotor rpm response in autorotation
level attitude. with the nose still slightly up. coordinate
upward collective pitch control with an increase in the
The requirement for a higher flare height.
throttle to join the needles at operating rpm. The throttle and
Reduced engine power performance
collective pitch must be coordinated properly.
Common Errors
If the throttle is increased too fast or too much. an engine
The following common errors should be prevented:
overspeed can occur; if throttle is increased too slowly or too
little in proportion to the increase in collective pitch, a loss of
1.
Entering the maneuver at an improper altitude or
rotor rpm results. Use sufficient collective pitch to stop the
airspeed.
descent, but keep in mind that the collective pitch application
2.
Entering the maneuver without a level attitude (or not
must be gradual to allow for engine response. Coordinate
in coordinated flight).
proper antitorque pedal pressure to maintain heading. When
3.
Entering the maneuver and not correcting from the
a landing is to be made following the power recovery, bring
initial deceleration to a steady state attitude (which
the helicopter to a hover and then descend to a landing.
allows excessive airspeed loss in the descent).
In nearly all helicopters, when practicing autorotations with
4.
Improper transition into the descent on entry.
power recovery, the throttle should be at the flight setting at
5.
Improper use of anti-torque on entry.
the beginning of the flare. As the rotor disk begins to dissipate
6.
Failure to establish the appropriate crosswind
its energy, the engine is up to speed as the needles join when
correction, allowing the aircraft to drift.
the rotor decreases into the normal flight rpm.
7.
Failure to maintain coordinated flight through the tum.
11-7