
(4) The undertaker must make reasonable attempts to agree a resolution to any concerns raised
by ScottishPower Renewables in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) prior to commencing the
relevant part of the authorised development.
Chiverton Junction
23.-(1) At least 28 days prior to the commencement of Work No. 3 the undertaker must
provide to ScottishPower Renewables copies of detailed design information for that work
demonstrating that the safe manoeuvre of the Design Vehicle can be accommodated travelling
from the east and turning through the same junction to travel back east.
(2) If by the expiry of 28 days beginning with the date on which a plan or document under sub-
paragraph (1) is submitted to it ScottishPower Renewables has not advised the undertaker in
writing of any reasonable requirements for the alteration of the detailed design of that work in
order to accommodate the safe manoeuvre of the Design Vehicle through the junction as described
in sub-paragraph (1), it shall be deemed not to have any such requirements.
(3) Work No. 3 must be constructed in accordance with the detailed design information referred
to in sub-paragraph (1) and any reasonable requirements specified by ScottishPower Renewables
in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) that are necessary to ensure the safe manoeuvre of the
Design Vehicle through the junction as described in sub-paragraph (1).
Chybucca Junction
24.-(1) At least 28 days prior to the commencement of Work No. 4 the undertaker must
provide to ScottishPower Renewables copies of detailed design information and the detailed
construction methodology for that work demonstrating-
(a) that the safe manoeuvre of the Design Vehicle can be accommodated from the A30
eastbound through the Chybucca Junction to the existing A30:
(b) that appropriate over-run areas will be provided: and
(c) how access will be maintained to the Wind Farm throughout construction
(2) If by the expiry of 28 days beginning with the date on which a plan or document under sub-
paragraph (1) is submitted to it ScottishPower Renewables has not advised the undertaker in
writing of any reasonable requirements for the alteration of the detailed design of that work or the
detailed construction methodology for that work in order to accommodate the safe manoeuvre of
the Design Vehicle through the junction, ensure that appropriate over-run areas are provided or to
maintain access to the Wind Farm during construction, as described in sub-paragraph (1), it shall
be deemed not to have any such requirements.
(3) Work No. 4 must be constructed in accordance with the detailed design information and the
detailed construction methodology referred to in sub-paragraph (1) and any reasonable
requirements specified by ScottishPower Renewables in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) that
are necessary to accommodate the safe manoeuvre of the Design Vehicle through the junction, to
ensure that appropriate over-run areas are provided or to maintain access to the Wind Farm during
construction, as described in sub-paragraph (1).
Carland Cross Junction
25.-(1) At least 28 days prior to the commencement of Work No. 5 the undertaker must
provide to ScottishPower Renewables copies of detailed design information for that work
demonstrating-
(a) that the safe manoeuvre of the Design Vehicle can be accommodated from the re-aligned
existing A30 eastbound into the Wind Farm:
(b) that appropriate over-run areas will be provided which will have a minimum 0.5m buffer
either side of the theoretical design vehicle swept path;
(c) in respect of Work No. 5(g)-
128