
MIT-CTP 4103
Is a color superconductor topological?
Yusuke Nishida
Center for Theoretical Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA
(Dated: January 2010)
A fully gapped state of matter, whether insulator or superconductor, can be asked if it is topo-
logically trivial or nontrivial. Here we investigate topological properties of superconducting Dirac
fermions in 3D having a color superconductor as an application. In the chiral limit, when the pair-
ing gap is parity even, the right-handed and left-handed sectors of the free space Hamiltonian have
nontrivial topological charges with opposite signs. Accordingly, a vortex line in the superconduc-
tor supports localized gapless right-handed and left-handed fermions with the dispersion relations
E = tup (v is a parameter dependent velocity) and thus propagating in opposite directions along
the vortex line. However, the presence of the fermion mass immediately opens up a mass gap for
such localized fermions and the dispersion relations become E = p2. When the pairing
gap is parity odd, the situation is qualitatively different. The right-handed and left-handed sectors of
the free space Hamiltonian in the chiral limit have nontrivial topological charges with the same sign
and therefore the presence of the small fermion mass does not open up a mass gap for the fermions
localized around the vortex line. When the fermion mass is increased further, there is a topological
phase transition at m = V12 12 and the localized gapless fermions disappear. We also elucidate
the existence of gapless surface fermions localized at a boundary when two phases with different
topological charges are connected A part of our results is relevant to the color superconductivity
of quarks.
PACS numbers: 21.65.Qr. 12.38.-t
leader)
I. INTRODUCTION
sulators and superconductors motivates us to ask the fol-
lowing question: Is a color superconductor topological?
A fully gapped state of matter can be asked if it is
In order to shed light on this question, we investigate in
topologically trivial or nontrivial. The most well-known
this paper the topological properties of superconducting
topological state of matter is the quantum Hall effect in
Dirac fermions in 3D. In Sec. II, we start with the mean-
two dimensions (2D) [1-3], in which the time reversal
field model Hamiltonian of the color superconductivity of
symmetry is explicitly broken. Recently the time rever-
quarks and point it out that the free space Hamiltonian
sal symmetric extensions of the quantum Hall effect have
can be characterized by a Z valued topological charge.
been theoretically proposed and experimentally observed
In Sec. III, we compute the topological charge of the free
both in 2D [4-6][7] and 3D (8-10)[11-15], which are re-
space Hamiltonian when the pairing gap is parity even as
ferred to as topological insulators (the 2D topological in-
a function of the fermion mass and show that its value is
sulator is also known as the quantum spin Hall effect).
closely linked to the existence of gapless fermions local-
Generally the topological state of matter is characterized
ized around a vortex line. The low-energy spectrum of
by the nontrivial topological charge of the single-particle
such fermions is also determined in this section.
Hamiltonian and accompanied by topologically protected
gapless edge/surface states with linear dispersions (Dirac
fermions).
Another class of topological states of matter arises in
superconductors Although the ordinary nonrelativistic
s-wave superconductor is topologically trivial, the weakly
paired phase of the Pa +ipy superconductor in 2D is topo-
logically nontrivial [16] and Sr2RuO4 is its candidate ma-
terial [17]. In addition to the gapless edge/surface states,
the vortex in the topological superconductor supports
In Sec. IV, we turn to the case where the pairing gap
gapless fermions localized around the vortex core. It is
is parity odd. By studying the topological charge of the
also known from the pioneering work by Jackiw and Rossi
free space Hamiltonian, we show that there is a topolog-
that the relativistic s-wave superconductor in 2D has the
ical phase transition as a function of the fermion mass,
similar properties [18]. Such a system has recently re-
which is also reflected in the existence of gapless fermions
ceived renewed interest because it can be realized on the
localized around a vortex line. In Sec. V, we elucidate the
surface of the 3D topological insulator in contact with
existence of gapless surface fermions localized at a bound-
the s-wave superconductor [19]. It is pointed out that
ary when two phases with different topological charges
the Balian-Werthamer state realized in the B phase of
are connected. Finally, Sec. VI is devoted to the sum-
the superfluid SHE is also topological [20-23].
mary of this paper and implications of our results for the
Such progress on the discoveries of the topological in-
color superconductor are discussed.