
Enjoyment: How much did you enjoy working on
ming extend to both men and women speaks to its
this programming assignment? (1=not at all, 7=very
broad-based appeal. As we continue to investigate the
much)
effects of this technique on attracting and retaining
Paired students enjoyed working on programming
female students, parallel research investigating these
assignments (M=5.15) more than non-pairing stu-
phenomena in the workplace is also needed.
C
dents (M=4.69), Likewise, among just the males,
paired students reported greater enjoyment (M=5.23)
This work was funded by National Science Foundation grant EIA-0089989. Any
opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this article are
than non-pairing students (M=4.75). Women paired
those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science
Foundation.
students also reported greater enjoyment (M=4.90)
than non-pairing women (M=4.65), however this dif-
ference was not significant. There was also no signifi-
REFERENCES
cant difference in the reported enjoyment of all
1. Beck, K. Extreme Programming Explained: Embrace Change. Addison-
Wesley, Reading, MA, 2000.
women versus all men.
2. Hanks, B. and McDowell, C. Program quality with pair programming
In addition to enjoying their coursework more, stu-
in CS1. In Proceedings of the 9th Annual Conference on Innovation and
dents who paired reported significantly higher confi-
Technology in Computer Science Education. (Leeds, UK, 2004), SIGCSE
Bulletin, 176-180.
dence in their program solutions (89.4%) than
3. McDowell, C., Werner, L., Bullock, H., and Fernald, J. The effects of
students who worked independently (71.2%). Consis-
pair-programming on performance in an introductory programming
course. In Proceedings of the 33rd SIGCSE Technical Symposium on
tent with findings in other areas, men were signifi-
Computer Science Education (KY, 2002) 38-42.
cantly more confident (87.0%) than women (81.1%).
4. McDowell, C., Werner, L Bullock, H., and Fernald, J. The impact of
There was also a significant interaction between pair-
pair programming on student performance and pursuit of computer
science related majors. In Proceedings of the 25th International Confer-
ing and gender with regard to reported confidence.
ence on Software Engineering. IEEE Computer Society (Portland, OR,
Follow-up tests of the interaction indicated that pair-
2003), 602-607.
ing resulted in more confidence for both women
5. Tech-Savvy Educating Girls in the New Computer Age. 2000. American
Association of University Women Education Foundation; Executive
(86.8% VS. 63.0%) and men (90.3% VS. 74.6%).
summary at www.aauw.org/research/techexecsumm.cfm.
However, the 24% increase in confidence that pairing
6. Werner, L.L., Hanks, B., and McDowell, C. Pair-programming helps
female computer science students. J. Educational Resources in Comput-
afforded women was even greater than the 15% confi-
ing 4, 1 (2005).
dence boost experienced by men who had the benefit
7. Williams, L.A. and Kessler, R.R. All I really need to know about pair
of pairing. The result was a significant decrease of a
programming I learned in kindergarten. Commun. ACM 43, 5 (May
2000), 108-114.
gender gap in confidence as shown in the figure here.
8. Williams, L.A. and Kessler, R.R. The effects of "pair-pressure" and
"pair-learning" on software engineering education. In Proceedings of the
13th Conference on Software Engineering Education and Training. IEEE
CONCLUSION
Computer Society (Austin, TX, 2000), 59-65.
The results of this study provide some of the most
9. Williams, L., Kessler, R., Cunningham, W., and Jeffries, R. Strength-
compelling evidence to date of the effectiveness of
ening the case for pair programming. IEEE Software 17, 4 (2000),
19-25.
pair programming as a pedagogical tool. It appears
10. Williams, L., McDowell, C., Nagappan, N., Fernald, J., and Werner,
that pairing bolsters course completion and conse-
L.L. Building pair programming knowledge through a family of exper-
iments. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Symposium on Empiri-
quently course pass rates, and contributes to greater
cal Software Engineering. (Rome, Italy, 2003), 143-153.
persistence in computer science-related majors.
11. Women, Minorities and Persons with Disabilities in Science and Engi-
Moreover, students who paired were more likely to
neering. NSF. 2004; www.nsf.gov/statistics/women.
pass the subsequent programming course that
required them to work alone. This is a strong indi-
CHARLIE McDoWELL (charlie@cs.ucsc.edu) is a professor in the
cator that pairing did not result in a significant num-
Computer Science Department at the University of California, Santa
Cruz.
ber of students passing the course without learning
LINDA WERNER (linda@cs.ucsc.edu) is a lecturer in the Computer
how to program due to a "free ride" from their part-
Science Department at the University of California, Santa Cruz.
ner. The pairing students also produce higher qual-
HEATHER E. BULLOCK (hbullock@cats.ucsc.edu) is an associate
ity programs, are more confident in their work, and
professor in the Psychology Department at the University of California,
Santa Cruz.
enjoy it more. We hope these findings will encour-
JULIAN FERNALD (jfernald@cats.ucsc.edu) is the director of
age instructors to use pair programming not only in
Institutional Research in the Psychology Department at the University
their introductory courses, but also in their upper-
of California, Santa Cruz.
level courses.
The continued underrepresentation of women in
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or class-
room use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for
computer science underscores the need for strategies
profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on
the first page. To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to
that foster women's interest and promote their success
lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee.
TPT
1
11C commueu OI WOMEN III
red without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for
room use is grant
cial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on
computer science underscores the need for strategies
profit or commero
copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to
the first page. To
r specific permission and/or a fee.
that foster women's interest and promote their success
lists, requires prio
[5]. Pair programming appears to be one such approach
01-0782/06/0800
[6]. That the benefits associated with pair program-
©
2006 ACM 00