
Netted Balloon Systems
The netted design [Figure 11-2] dates from the 18th century.
A spherical balloon envelope is encased in a diamond mesh
net of light weight cord that runs around the balloon from
the apex valve at the top of the envelope down to support
points on the gondola.
Inflation is accomplished by first bringing the inflation
hose to the center of a ground tarp. The envelope is next
laid over the hose with the hose inserted into the appendix
and with the apex of the balloon on top and centered. The
net is deployed over and attached to the envelope and as the
lifting gas is flowed, sandbags are hung on the diamonds of
the net at ground level. As the balloon fills and forms a rising
hemisphere, the crew moves the sandbags down the net to
keep them at ground level. Enough bags are added to keep
the balloon anchored to the ground.
After the envelope is completely filled, it is raised and the
basket is brought underneath and attached to the net. The
hemispherical shape is very stable in moderate to high ground
winds as the flow is over the top of the shape. One drawback
of netted balloons is that more crew is required to manage
the sandbags during inflation.
Quick Fill Balloon Systems
The quick fill design dates from the mid 20th century. A
Figure 11-2. "Spirit of Springfield, - a netted gas ballon.
natural shape envelope is surrounded by vertical support
tapes that run from the apex of the balloon down to the
gondola. [Figure 11-3] Several horizontal tapes extend
circumferentially around and are attached to the vertical tapes
to stabilize the structure.
Inflation is accomplished by laying out the envelope on the
ground along its full length with the apex at one end and the
appendix (base) at the other. The gondola is attached to the
load lines and is bagged down. As the lifting gas is flowed
in through the appendix, several crew members hold the
apex of the balloon down. When enough gas has entered
the envelope to generate approximately 100 to 150 pounds
of net lift, the apex is released, the envelope rises, and the
inflation is completed.
Lifting Gases
Modern gas balloons normally use helium or hydrogen as
the lifting gas. Anhydrous ammonia and methane are two
other less common options. Helium is a monotomic, inert
gas and must be refined to reach a purity of greater than
99 percent from raw well gas at a purity of a few percent.
Hydrogen typically exists in the molecular form H2. It is
flammable when combined in a mixture of 25 percent H2
to 75 percent air. This means that this mixture supports an
Figure 11-3. Quick fill design gas balloon.
existing flame.
11-3