
GLOBAL BUSINESS SMALL BUSINESS
grown up witnessing the triumphs of
'The same drive to find
preneurs flout is the one between labor and
young high-tech hotshots. And the resur-
people who are
love. After a sick cat and a $5,000 veterinary
gence of venture capital after the dotcom
bust has seen a corresponding surge of
complementary also
bill gave Chris and Natasha Ashton, 34 and
32, the idea for their pet-insurance com-
interest in co-preneurism, says Lawrence
operates in business."
pany, Fetch Inc., the English couple, now
Gelburd, who teaches entrepreneurship at
-HELEN FISHER, ANTHROPOLOGIST,
Philadelphians, have talked nonstop about
Wharton. "It's sexier and hotter," he says,
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY
it, boring their friends to stupefaction. Four
"to run a business together now."
years later they are selling their policies to
Family-friendly lifestyles and a sense of
pet owners and corporate benefit plans. And
mission fuel the aspirations of many of
fair wages, the business divided naturally
still yapping like Yorkshire terriers. "We
these couples. Yanik Silver, 33, of Potomac,
into equal responsibilities, with realms as-
know we should have boundaries," she says,
Maryland, started SurefireMarketing.com
signed according to temperament and abil-
"but we don't. It's business morning till
a publishing company, in 2000, and his then
ity. Ms. Garson handles the look of the
night, but it's SO exciting, we don't think of
fiancé Melissa, 35, soon joined him. "I was
product, advertising and communications;
it as work."
wildly in love, and I wanted her with me,"
Mr. Garson oversees legal and fair-trade is-
Still, that much can sometimes be too
he says. When their son Zak was born, they
sues and manufacturing.
much, says Maja Drolec, 28, a Babson Col-
shared child care. The "Internet lifestyle"
Complementary skills and roles are key,
lege M.B.A. student who teamed up with
their site promotes, Silver says, is partly
which means the old saw about opposites
her boyfriend Mihael Mikek, 3I, to start
about "the opportunity to stay home and
attracting in love can work double-time
FunkyCall.com, a service providing record-
watch your kids grow up."
for co-preneurs. After analyzing the genetic
ed greetings and mobile voice campaigns. "I
The egalitarianism of these pairs, while
profiles of the dating site Chemistry.com,
hate to differentiate life into business and
not total, may give them an edge in avoiding
Rutgers University anthropologist Helen
pleasure," she says, "but some months our
gender-role traps. Elisabeth and Michael
Fisher concluded that people are more at-
relationship feels like too much business."
Garson, 33 and 35, scrapped their first joint
tracted to those with different balances of
Yet when the business goes well, Mikek
venture, an ad agency, she says, "because
dopamine, serotonin, estrogen and testos-
says, it charges up their romance.
someone had to be in charge, and we
terone. "And the same drive to find people
Ah, young love, SO oblivious to the grim
fought." When the Philadelphia couple
who are complementary also operates in
statistics of romance, which doom almost as
founded Living Wage Clothing, a high-style
business," she says.
many couples as businesses. During five of
T-shirt company that pays foreign workers
Another boundary that young co-
their IO years together running a restaurant
consultancy in New York, Sam Firer, 44, and
Steven Hall, 47, were live-in lovers. At some
point, Firer says, "We talked all day long to
each other and at the end of the day had
nothing left to say." They parted as a couple
but still work closely together. "We have a
much better relationship now," says Firer.
While most couple-owned businesses
implode after a divorce, others, amazingly,
continue to thrive-and not just in terms of
the bottom line. Family therapists Pat Cole
and Kit Johnson, professors at Nova South-
eastern University and Capella University,
respectively, identified several common fac-
tors that help busted couples succeed at
business. Perhaps most important was mu-
tual trust. A "curious" finding, say the pro-
fessors. A possible explanation: their ability
to compartmentalize their business and per-
sonal lives. After the breakup, they still
loved their "baby."
For Judy Rosenberg, 59, and her ex-
husband Eliot Winograd, 60, their offspring
is Rosie's Bakery, a Boston chain of six bak-
ery cafés. Their romance lasted five years
and their marriage only two, but their part-
nership has endured nearly 30. Their mar-
riage foundered, she says, over boundary
issues: she has none, he has many. But in
business they complement each other. She
is the baker/artiste; he is the operations wiz-
ard. "Both of us were integral parts of the
business," she explains, adding, "I enjoy our
partnership SO much now. Eliot and I have
this 'baby.'" Maybe for some couples, the
Twin offspring Baby Juno inspired Juno Baby, the baby-music business created by her parents
business was always the real romance.
58