
references and resources
driving tip
When you come for your road test,
bring with you:
If you can't keep your
primary and secondary identification - see the
road test appointment,
you need to notify ICBC
Identification (ID) section on the inside back cover for
You'll be charged a fee
more information.
if you don't show up for
your scheduled road test
a safe vehicle
and don't provide either
48 hours notice or a valid
valid vehicle registration, licence and insurance papers
reason for missing the
appointment.
your current licence
the fees for the road test and photo licence
glasses or contact lenses if you require them to drive.
Strategies: ensuring your vehicle is safe
For your road test, you need to provide a safe, reliable
vehicle that meets legal requirements. Also, make sure
you are familiar with the vehicle.
If your vehicle is unsafe or does not meet requirements, your
road test may be cancelled and you will have to reschedule
your appointment to a later date. Here is a list of some of
warning!
the typical reasons that a road test may be cancelled:
1. Brake lights, signal lights or headlights not working, or
Make sure the vehicle
badly cracked or missing lenses - these lights help you
insurance covers you to
drive the vehicle.
to be seen in traffic, so they need to function properly.
For example, some
2.
Cracked windshield or illegally tinted windows - it's
insurance categories limit
vehicle use to drivers with
important that you and the driver examiner be able to
more than 10 years driving
see out the windshield, so a badly cracked windshield
experience.
just won't do. Tinted windows may reduce your ability
It's your responsibility to
to see other road users - and their ability to make eye
ensure that your vehicle
contact with you. B.C. law only allows certain windows
is properly insured for
and only certain portions of the windshield to be tinted
use on your road test.
and limits the degree of tinting - no aftermarket tinting
ICBC accepts no liability
on the windshield or front side windows is allowed.
whatsoever for ensuring
that your vehicle is
3. Horn not working - check to see that it works.
properly insured and
expressly reserves its right
4. Vehicle not properly licensed or insured -
to make determinations
B.C.-licensed vehicles must display a valid licence plate
with respect to coverage
in the event of a claim.
and insurance decal. Remember that passenger cars
Check with your local
must display two licence plates - one mounted on the
Autoplan broker if you
front and one on the vehicle. Make sure the insurance
have any questions about
permits you to drive the vehicle (if you are renting a
your coverage. If you're
vehicle, the rental agreement must name you as a
planning to rent a vehicle,
driver).
check with the rental
agency to find out if they
5. Seatbelts not working or frayed - for your road test,
allow you to drive their
make sure both the driver and passenger seatbelts work
vehicle and use it for your
road test.
properly, and that the seating area is clean.
144