
Committee in the Senate, where he has
ing running for office and it didn't seem
Democratic Senator Joe Biden is SO far
served for 20 years. He has been to Iraq six
right to stay on such an "apolitical" panel.
the only presidential candidate to directly
times; Giuliani has never been there. (Of
Staffers on the commission say they don't
rebut Giuliani's claim that he knows more
the major candidates, only Giuliani, Fred
remember that coming up.
about terrorism and foreign policy. "Give
Thompson and John Edwards have never
me a break," says Biden, who has served on
visited Iraq.)
Room for Improvement
the Senate Foreign Relations committee for
Giuliani had an unusual opportunity
ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL, GIULIANI'S FOR-
32 years and has been to Iraq seven times.
to cram foreign policy when he was invit-
eign policy comments have sometimes
"I'm more qualified than him by a mile." He
ed to join the Iraq Study Group by the co-
come off more confident than competent.
calls Giuliani a "semidemagogue" on ter-
chairman, former Secretary of State James
In New Hampshire this year, according to
rorism and criticizes him for mischaracter-
Baker III, in February 2006. Giuliani accept-
the New York Times, Giuliani said it was
izing the threat. "I think he gets away with
ed, becoming one of just IO people, including
unclear whether Iran or North Korea was
this because the most catastrophic event in
former Secretary of Defense William J. Perry
further along on building a nuclear bomb.
modern American history saw him at the
and retired U.S. Supreme Court Justice
(North Korea tested a nuclear device in
base of a building demonstrating some per-
Sandra Day O'Connor, in the congressional-
October 2006. Iran has not done so.) Then,
sonal courage and taking command." But
ly mandated group. He participated in a con-
in his speech at the Maryland synagogue
this is no time for sentimental whimsy,
in July, Giuliani mocked Democratic can-
Biden says. "When power is passed from this
'Our enemies have
didate Barack Obama for claiming that
President to the next, that person is going to
made clear to us that
North Korea was America's No. I enemy.
be left with virtually no margin for error."
"North Korea is an enemy. North Korea is
Giuliani can, of course, make up for his
what they seek is the
dangerous. mean, I grant that. And boy, we
experience deficit with his advisers. So far,
annihilation of our
have to be really careful about North Korea,"
he has chosen hawkish foreign policy gu-
Giuliani said, his voice iced with sarcasm.
most precious
rus, including Norman Podhoretz, a found-
"But I don't remember North Koreans com-
ing member of the neocon movement who
freedoms.'
ing to America and killing us."
recently called for an immediate attack on
-GIULIANI, SEPT. II, 2006
North Korea is known to sell advanced
Iran, and Kim Holmes, an expert at the
weaponry to other states that sponsor ter-
Heritage Foundation who advised former
rorists. The U.S. State Department has listed
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. His
But
North Korea as a sponsor of terrorism. The
chief foreign policy adviser is Charles Hill,
counterterrorism expert
reason North Korea keeps U.S. terrorism ex-
a lecturer in international studies at Yale,
Bruce Hoffman warns,
perts up at night is not that North Korean
who says Giuliani doesn't actually require
'Bellicose rhetoric plays
operatives will come here and attack us; it's
much staffing. "If you run New York City,
right into terrorists' aims.
that they might sell a nuclear bomb to peo-
you know foreign affairs," he says. "In deal-
They want to elicit an
ple who will.
ing with the U.N. and a host of foreign lead-
over-the-top response
that may further
Recently, the National Intelligence
ers, that's a host of experiences."
their cause."
Estimate stated that al-Qaeda has regener-
Even if Hill is correct, Giuliani-like all
ated, directly challenging Giuliani's claims
Presidents-would need to be surrounded
that the war in Iraq has made the U.S. safer.
with the most qualified and competent ad-
Yet the former mayor continues to insist
visers, particularly when it comes to over-
that the opposite is true: "Being on offense
seeing homeland security. One of the most
ference call to discuss logistics but then did
gives us more safety than being weak and
damning criticisms of Giuliani, however,
not attend the first two major meetings. On
being on defense." When I ask him how he
has been his record of flawed judgment on
those days, he delivered paid speeches.
reconciles that conclusion with reports that
personnel. In 2004, Giuliani recommended
The May session Giuliani missed was a
the terrorism threat has increased since
that President George W. Bush nominate
master class on Iraq. He would have gotten
we've been "going on offense," Giuliani dis-
Bernard Kerik to run the Department of
briefings from General David Petraeus, the
misses those findings and points to the lack
Homeland Security. Kerik was a police offi-
top U.S. commander in Iraq; former Secre-
of an attack on U.S. soil since 9/II as evi-
cer and Giuliani's driver before he was ele-
tary of State Colin Powell; former Army
dence of our safety. "Sometimes," he says,
vated to corrections commissioner and
Chief of Staff Eric Shinseki; and Douglas
"we miss the forest for the trees when we sit
police chief. But the nomination collapsed
Feith, the Pentagon's former No. 3 civilian,
in places and just analyze."
when information about Kerik's past and
among others. All told, says a staffer for the
In an article in the latest Foreign Affairs,
possible ties to mob-related businesses be-
Iraq Study Group, "they had 40 of the top
Giuliani blames the Clinton Administra-
gan to filter out. Kerik pleaded guilty last
experts on Iraq brief them for hours. They
tion's foreign policy for provoking terrorism.
year to improperly accepting $165,000
had access to anyone they wanted."
"The Terrorists' War on Us was encouraged
worth of free renovations on his apartment
After the two no-shows, Baker contacted
by unrealistic and inconsistent actions tak-
and may still face federal charges. "Ishould
Giuliani and Alan Simpson, a former Sena-
en in response to terrorist attacks in the
have done a better job of investigating him,
tor who had also missed meetings, to gauge
past," he writes. He also reaches further
vetting him," Giuliani told reporters in late
their commitment levels. Simpson af-
back into history, questioning the U.S. de-
March. "It's my responsibility, and I've
firmed his dedication and was able to make
cision to leave Vietnam. And his views on
learned from it." (Questions were raised
future meetings. But Giuliani formally
Israel sound to the right even of the Bush
about Giuliani's vetting system yet again in
withdrew, citing "previous time commit-
Administration: "It is not in the interest of
June when his South Carolina campaign
ments," according to a copy of his letter to
the United States, at a time when it is being
chairman, Thomas Ravenel, was indicted
Baker provided to TIME by John B. Williams,
threatened by Islamist terrorists, to assist
on federal cocaine charges.)
Baker's policy assistant. Giuliani recently
in the creation of another state that will
For his chief homeland-security adviser
said he resigned because he was consider-
support terrorism," he writes.
on the campaign, Giuliani has chosen
TIME September IO, 2007
19