
are often predrilled with a small pilot hole, enlarged with a
diamond-coated or carbide drill bit and reamed with a carbide
reamer to final hole size.
Back counterboring is a condition that can occur when
carbon/epoxy parts mate metal substructure parts. The back
Figure 7-85. Klenk-type drill for drilling Kevlar®.
edge of the hole in the carbon/epoxy part can be eroded or
radiused by metal chips being pulled through the composite.
The condition is more prevalent when there are gaps between
the parts or when the metal debris is stringy rather than small
chips. Back counterboring can be minimized or eliminated
by changing feeds and speeds, cutter geometry, better part
clamp-up adding a final ream pass, using a peck drill. or
combination of these.
When drilling combinations of composite parts with metal
parts, the metal parts may govern the drilling speed. For
example, even though titanium is compatible with carbon/
epoxy material from a corrosion perspective, lower drilling
speeds are required in order to ensure no metallurgical
damage occurs to the titanium Titanium is drilled with low
speed and high feed. Drill bits suitable for titanium might not
be suitable for carbon or fiberglass. Drill bits that are used
for drilling titanium are often made from cobalt-vanadium:
drill bits used for carbon fiber are made from carbide or
are diamond coated to increase drill life and to produce an
Figure 7-86. Drilling and cutting tools for composite materials.
accurate hole. Small-diameter high-speed steel drill bits, such
as No. 40 drill. which are used to manually drill pilot holes,
are typically used because carbide drills are relatively brittle
and are easily broken. The relatively low cost of these small
HSS drill bits offsets the limited life expectancy. High-speed
steel drill bits may last for only one hole.
The most common problem with carbide cutters used in hand-
drill operations is handling damage (chipped edges) to the
cutters. A sharp drill with a slow constant feed can produce
a 0.1 mm (0.004-inch) tolerance hole through carbon/epoxy
plus thin aluminum, especially if a drill guide is used. With
hard tooling, tighter tolerances can be maintained When the
structure under the carbon/epoxy is titanium, drills can pull
Figure 7-87. Autofeed drill.
titanium chips through the carbon/epoxy and enlarge the hole.
In this case. a final ream operation may be required to hold
tight hole tolerances. Carbide reamers are needed for holes
Processes and Precautions
through carbon/epoxy composite structure. In addition, the
Composite materials are drilled with drill motors operating
exit end of the hole needs good support to prevent splintering
between 2,000 and 20,000 rpm and a low feed rate. Drill
and delaminations when the reamer removes more than
motors with a hydraulic dash pod or other type of feed control
about 0.13 mm (0.005-inch) on the diameter. The support
are preferred because they restrict the surging of the drill
can be the substructure or a board held firmly against the
as it exits the composite materials This reduces breakout
back surface. Typical reaming speeds are about one-half of
damage and delaminations. Parts made from tape products
the drilling speed.
are especially susceptible to breakout damage: parts made
from fabric material have experienced less damage. The
composite structure needs to be backed with a metal plate
or sheet to avoid breakout Holes in composite structures
7-51