
TM 1-320
22
AIR CORPS
22. Variation of pressure distribution on airship hull.-a.
In section II resistance of an airship was shown to be partly caused
by increased nose pressure. Throughout the discussion the airship
was considered to be flying on an even keel and in a straight line.
All forces were parallel to the direction of flight. Before entering
the subject of stability proper it will be necessary to show variation
in pressure distribution on the hull when the airship is not flying as
considered in section II, or, in other words, when transverse aero-
dynamic forces are present on the hull.
b. Figure 16 shows a typical pressure distribution on an airship hull
when the airship is in horizontal flight in a straight line and on an even
keel. This pressure distribution will be true whenever the line join-
ing the tip of the nose with the tip of the tail (longitudinal axis) is
Langitudinal Axis OF Hull
Direction of motion
FIGURE 16.-Pressure distribution on airship hull (longitudinal axis parallel to direction
of motion).
parallel with the direction of motion. Because an airship can be con-
sidered as a symmetrical solid of revolution, the pressure distribution
has the following charactertistics:
(1) Distribution depicted is uniform for any plane passed through
the longitudinal axis.
(2) Varying reduced pressure exists from a section just in rear of
the nose to a section just forward of the tail.
(3) Both nose and tail have positive pressure, but that on the tail
is too small to be of much assistance to forward motion.
C. Figure 17 shows the distributions in pressure for an 18° angle
of attack to the relative air. Other angles of attack have similar dis-
tributions. The distribution shown holds equally true whether the
deviation of the axis from the direction of motion is in a horizontal
or
a vertical plane. When, for instance, the inclination is in the verti-
cal plane, the following characteristics are observed
(1) Positive pressure on the nose lies almost entirely in a zone be-
neath the axis.
(2) Plane of transition, BC, figure 17, is oblique with regard to the
axis.
36