
Among students who completed
the class, those who paired produced
significantly better programs than
those who worked alone.
were assigned a partner from their list. Those who
major declarations a year after taking the class.
stated no preference were randomly assigned a part-
An important assumption of this study was that all
ner. Whenever possible students remained with the
four course sections were similar in terms of students'
same partner throughout the quarter, however, due
academic preparation to succeed. We found no dif-
to schedule changes and drops, a small number of
ference in the SAT math scores among the four sec-
partner reassignments were necessary. As a result of
tions. We did find that the average SAT verbal score
hardships such as heavy work schedules or living far
for one of the three pairing sections was lower than
from campus, 17 students across the three pairing
the score for the other two pairing sections. However,
sections were permitted to program alone for various
the difference was not significant when compared to
reasons. Data from these students was combined
the non-pairing section nor was there a significant
with the data from the students in the non-pairing
difference between the pairing sections as a group and
section.
the non-pairing section. Because the difference was
Although each student was assigned to one 90-
only between pairing sections it seemed acceptable.
minute lab time per week, most programming
One of the key hypotheses tested by our study was
assignments were completed outside of scheduled lab
the following:
time. The labs functioned primarily as teaching assis-
tant office hours. There were no specific in-lab
Women who program in pairs will have higher reten-
assignments and attendance was not mandatory. Pro-
tion rates than women who program independently.
gramming assignments were scored for functionality
and readability. Along with each assignment, stu-
pecifically we wanted to know if using
dents submitted a log indicating the amount of time
reviewing, and alone), their level of confidence in
S
pairing as a learning tool for beginning
they spent on the assignment (pairing students were
programmers would influence course
asked to differentiate between time spent driving,
completion rates and subsequent com-
puter programming course-taking behav-
their solution, how much they enjoyed working on
ior, both in terms of attempts and pass
the assignment, and how satisfied they were with the
rates, and students' decisions to major in computer
process.
science-related fields.
Regardless of whether they completed assignments
A comparison of students who used pair program-
in pairs, all students took exams independently. The
ming with those who didn't indicated that pairers
final exam assessed students' knowledge of program-
were significantly more likely to remain in the course
ming concepts and their ability to write new code. We
through the final exam (90.8%) than were non-pair-
collected information about students' SAT scores, the
ers (80.4%). Among just those who took the final
courses they took over the following year, and their
exam, the difference in pass rates between pairing
92
August 2006/Vol 49, No. 8 COMMUNICATIONS OF THE ACM