
38
Business overview Results of operations - Americas
in terms of its risk-based capital. The adjusted capital levels
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
of the Aegon USA insurance companies currently exceed all of
Act (Dodd-Frank Act). enacted in 2010. established the Federal
the regulatory action levels as defined by the Model Act. Any
Insurance Office While the FIO has no direct regulatory authority
modification of these adjusted capital levels by the regulators or
over US insurers, it does have certain authority to represent the
rating agency capital models may impact Aegon USA. Previously
US government in establishing international regulatory standards
states adopted conservative reserving requirements for term and
for insurers, and to represent the US insurance industry in
universal life products These continue to cause capital strain
international matters The FIO is also authorized to monitor all
for the life insurance industry and, in volatile market conditions
aspects of the insurance industry. including identifying issues
funding for these reserves is challenging
or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to
a systemic crisis in the insurance industry of the US financial
The NAIC amended its Model Holding Company Act and
system. On December 12. 2013, the FIO submitted to Congress
Regulation to enhance disclosure to regulators about risk
and released to the public a report on how to modernize and
exposure to insurers from within their holding company system
improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States
for adoption by jurisdictions from 2012. Existing insurance
The report details strengths and weaknesses of the current US
holding company statutes and the regulations of each insurer's
insurance regulatory system and outlines near-term reforms
domiciliary state in the United States already impose various
for states to undertake regarding capital adequacy, safety
limitations on investments in affiliates, and require prior approval
and soundness reform of insurer resolution practices, and
of the payment of dividends above certain threshold levels by
marketplace regulation The report also outlines areas for federal
the licensed insurer to Aegon or its affiliates In response to
involvement in insurance regulation, including pursuing national
international developments the NAIC also passed a new Own
uniform treatment for reinsurers, adopting national standards for
Risk and Solvency Protection Model Act and Guidance Manual,
agent licensing and other provisions of The National Association
to come into effect in 2015 The NAIC passed a revised Model
of Registered Agents and Brokers Reform Act of 2013, and
Standard Valuation Law (SVL) and Valuation Manual, which
studying the use of personal information for insurance pricing
together established Principles-Based Reserving (PBR) in 2012
and coverage purposes The FIO is expected to continue to
Seven states, none in Aegon USA's domestic jurisdictions passed
monitor state insurance activities, coordinate policy. and engage
the SVL in 2013. As adoption by a super-majority of states is
in other actions as necessary to pursue the recommendations
required for PBR to be effective in any state, the effective date
made in its report.
of PBR is expected to be 2016 or later The NAIC will continue
to consider changes to corporate governance and insurers'
The Dodd-Frank Act has entrusted to the Board of Governors of
use of captives through 2014. The impact of changes to the
the Federal Reserve Board (the "Federal Reserve") a significant
use of captives on the company cannot be predicted at this
regulatory role with respect to life insurers which are either
time Proposals have included abolishing the use of captives or
designated as systemically significant or have a bank within
significantly restricting their use.
the group. Finally the International Association of Insurance
Supervisors (IAIS). which includes the Federal Reserve FIO and
Although historically the federal government of the United
representatives of state regulators, is developing international
States has not regulated the insurance business many federal
capital and supervisory standards for internationally active life
laws impact the insurance business in a variety of ways.
insurance groups, such as Aegon It is still to be determined
US federal and state privacy laws and regulations impose
the extent to which these developments or the activities of the
restrictions on financial institutions use and disclosure as well
FIO and the Federal Reserve will impact Aegon USA and the
as the security of customer information including obligations
regulation of insurance in the United States or life insurers in
in the event of data security breaches Congress is considering
the United States or internationally
proposals intended to assist in combating cyberthreats
Proposals designed to assist the federal government in
The Dodd-Frank Act also established the Consumer Financial
combating cyberthreats could impose additional obligations on
Protection Bureau, which has the authority to regulate the
companies to provide information relative to the effort At this
marketing practices of credit insurance and other financial
time, it is uncertain what impact. if any, these proposals may
products sold through banks The Federal Reserve Board has also
have on insurers
established certain disclosures relating to credit insurance sold in
connection with a bank loan.
In addition to the US Congress non-traditional insurance
regulators are increasingly involved in insurance matters
Federal laws and the rules of the Federal Trade Commission
traditionally reserved for State regulation: for example, the
(FTC) and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
Federal Reserve Board the Federal Insurance Office (FIO). the
prohibit telephone solicitations to customers who have placed
Securities & Exchange Commission and others have recently
their telephone numbers on the National Do Not Call Registry
considered the regulation of captive reinsurance transactions
Additionally proposals to place restrictions on direct mail are
considered from time to time by the US Congress and states.
AEGON
Annual Report 2013
CONTENTS