
Consumer Lending
We also support homeownership by offering a
variety of refinancing and workout arrangements
2010 Highlights
to give our customers options. While each situation
$1.1 billion total revenue
is different, we intend to work toward mutually
$20.5 billion average loans
beneficial outcomes with our borrowers Some
alternative modification options may include
$65.6 billion mortgage servicing portfolio
changing the terms of the original loan to make the
7,700 dealer indirect auto lending network
payments more affordable, primarily by lowering
interest rates and extending the terms.
Business Description
Strategy
Fifth Third understands that each customer
Consumer Lending provides loan solutions
to customers across and beyond Fifth Third's
has unique needs. To evolve with the dynamic
footprint. Our loan products include mortgages
marketplace and meet the changing needs of
and home equity loans and lines. Consumer
customers as they progress through life, we continue
Lending also partners with a network of auto
to adjust our lending solutions. Our strategic focus is
dealers that originate loans on the Bank's behalf.
to surround each new and existing customer with a
Whether in need of a mortgage or a new car, our
team of professional bankers committed to providing
complete banking solutions in order to profitably
customers know we offer a solution to help them
grow market share.
achieve their goals.
Our sales and service associates strive to achieve
Customer Focus
the highest ratings for customer experience while
We recognize that personal loans are often a vital
delivering operational excellence In 2010, we
element for the prosperity of our customers. We
advanced our mortgage origination market share
deliver a full spectrum of competitive lending
within the top 20. and remain a top five market
solutions that correspond to their financial situations.
share leader within the non-captive prime auto
Throughout the entire customer experience, we
lending space.
strive to provide expert advice and outstanding
service. To help prepare for major life moments like
buying a car or for purchasing every day necessities,
Fifth Third provides lending solutions that fit our
customers' needs today and tomorrow.
2010 ANNUAL REPORT
9