
viewpoints
anyone around the world.
ing to raise awareness of both textbook
tor their interactions with them, ana-
Over the last decade the technical, le-
costs and this new avenue to reduce
lyze those interactions, and then send
gal, and social puzzle pieces have come
them. As a sign of the maturation of the
rich feedback to the student about their
together SO that anyone, anywhere can
movement, delegates from around the
learning, as well as to the communities
now author, assemble, customize, dis-
world met in Cape Town, South Africa
of curriculum builders, authors, and
tribute, have reviewed, and publish
to develop the eponymous Declaration
instructors to drive iterative improve-
their own textbook in very little time
that was officially released in January
ment of the learning materials. An early
and at zero or very low cost. The key en-
2008 and has already garnered signa-
example that currently focuses more on
ablers are:
tures from more than 1,600 individuals
student feedback than continuous itera-
Technologies like the Internet,
and 165 organizations to date (see cape-
tive content improvement is Carnegie
which enables virtually free digital con-
towndeclaration.org).
Mellon University's Open Learning Ini-
tent distribution; XML, which turns
tiative (cmu.edu/oli).
a monolithic textbook into a rapidly
Free and Open
reconfigurable construction of small,
are Just the Beginning
Free and Open as a Business Model
reusable "modules," much as building
The most exciting thing about OERs is
OERs are not at odds with the for-profit
with Lego blocks; Web 2.0 tools like wi-
that free access is just the beginning.
world. Indeed, we contend that the new
kis and semantic tagging systems, which
OERS will increasingly blur the lines
development and distribution models
enable real-time distributed global col-
between courses, grade levels, labs, and
promoted by the OER movement repre-
laboration; advanced visualization and
textbooks, turning the current textbook
sent the natural and inevitable evolution
graphics tools, which enable immersive
production pipeline into a vast dynam-
of the educational publishing industry
simulation environments; and print-on-
ic knowledge ecosystem that is in a con-
in a way that parallels the evolution of
demand systems, which enable the pro-
stant state of creation, use, reuse, and
the software industry (the now-main-
duction of inexpensive paper books for
improvement. OERS also promise to
stream Linux, Apache, and Firefox), the
those who prefer or need them.
provide each child with his or her own
music industry (Radiohead's recent "pay
Open copyright licenses like the
textbook that's tailored to the student's
what you like" digital album download),
Creative Commons and GNU Free Doc-
background and learning style (not "off
and the scholarly publishing industry
umentation licenses, which turn once
the rack" as they are today) and to the
(the U.S. government's recent mandat-
closed and static educational materials
institution's goals.
ing of free online access to all journal
into living objects that can be continu-
OERs enable the development of
articles stemming from NIH-funded re-
ously developed, remixed, and main-
tighter feedback loops that immerse
search). The key enabler in all of these is
tained by a worldwide community of
students in interactive learning environ-
free Internet-based digital distribution.
authors and editors.
ments and couple learning outcomes
Chris Anderson, in his Wired article
Several OER projects are already at-
more directly into textbook develop-
"Free: Why $0.00 is the Future of Busi-
tracting millions of users per month (as
ment and improvement. A key online
ness," argues that while free was once a
of July 2008). Some, like the MIT Open-
ingredient will be "Web 3.0/Semantic
marketing gimmick, it is now emerging
CourseWare project (mit.edu/ocw) and
Web" technologies based on natural
as a full-fledged economic model.
its OCW consortium (ocwconsortium.
language processing, data mining, ma-
This economy provides many av-
org), are top-down organized institution-
chine learning, artificial intelligence,
enues for financially sustaining myriad
al repositories that showcase their insti-
and semantic markup languages like
different OER projects. Just as for-profit
tutions' curricula. Others, like Connex-
MathML, MusicXML, and CML (Chemi-
companies like Red Hat, IBM, Oracle,
ions (cnx.org), are grassroots organized
cal Markup Language). The result will
and others charge customers for the val-
and encourage contributions from all
be "textbooks" that not only deliver
ue they add to open source software and
comers. Still others, like the Open Uni-
open content to students but also moni-
then in turn give back to the open source
versity's OpenLearn project (openlearn.
community through direct financial
open.ac.uk), combine aspects of both.
support, programming personnel, and
Wikipedia (wikipedia.org) is regularly
The buzz surrounding
free marketing, value-adding for-profit
referenced by students, teachers, and
the high cost, limited
organizations are emerging in the OER
faculty and is increasingly used directly
space. For example, non-profit Connex-
as a learning tool. A consortium of com-
access, static
ions' partnership with for-profit QOOP
munity colleges throughout California
nature, and often
(qoop.com) enables the production of
and around the U.S. is developing a suite
print-on-demand paper textbooks that
of free, open textbooks.2 Governments
low quality of the
sell for a fraction of the price of a con-
like Vietnam's are committing to OERs
world's textbooks has
ventional commercial publisher ($20
to help reinvent their educational sys-
for a 300-page engineering textbook in
items (vocw.vn). Professional societies
reached a crescendo.
regular use at Rice University; $29 for a
like the IEEE are getting involved as a
500-page statistics textbook in use at a
way to bolster their global educational
number of California community col-
outreach (ieeecnx.org). And the Stu-
leges starting in fall 2008). A three-way
dent PIRGS Open Textbooks campaign
revenue-sharing arrangement benefits
(maketextbooksaffordable.org) is work-
QOOP, Connexions, and the author (if
SEPTEMBER 2008
VOL. 51
NO. 9
COMMUNICATIONS OF THE ACM
31