
Luca Floris is a Cloud Technical Consultant in IBM EMEA.
Luca joined IBM 4 years ago as a graduate through the IBM
Graduate Scheme and he has 8 years of experience in IT,
graduating from Plymouth University with a degree in
Computer Science. His primary focus is containerization and
application modernization through IBM Cloud Private and
related technologies. He is well recognized as a technical focal
point for IBM Cloud Private from IBM Cloud Innovation Labs in
EMEA, and has written extensively about IBM Cloud Private on
Kubernetes.
Rahul Gupta is a Cloud Native Solutions Architect in IBM
Country
Cloud Solutioning Centre in USA. Rahul is a IBM Certified
Smith
Cloud Architect with 14 years of professional experience in IBM
Cloud technologies, such as Internet of Things, Blockchain,
and Container Orchestration Platforms. Rahul has been a
technical speaker in various conferences worldwide. Rahul has
authored several IBM Redbooks publications about messaging,
mobile, and cloud computing. Rahul is a IBM Master Inventor
and also works on MQTT protocol in OASIS board for open
source specifications.
Vasfi Gucer is an IBM Redbooks Project Leader with the IBM
International Technical Support Organization. He has more
than 23 years of experience in the areas of cloud computing,
systems management, networking hardware, and software. He
writes extensively and teaches IBM classes worldwide about
IBM products. His focus has been on cloud computing for the
last three years. Vasfi is also an IBM Certified Senior IT
Specialist, Project Management Professional (PMP), IT
Infrastructure Library (ITIL) V2 Manager, and ITIL V3 Expert.
Anil Patil is a senior Solution Architect at IBM US. He is a
Certified Cloud Solution Architect and Solution Advisor -
DevOps with more than 18 years of IT experience in Cognitive
Solutions, IBM Cloud, Microservices, IBM Watson API, and
Cloud-Native Applications. His core experience is in
Microservices, AWS, Cloud Integration, API Development, and
Solution Architecture. He is currently a Lead Solution Architect
and Cloud Architect for various clients in North America. Anil
has been a Redbooks author and technical contributor for
various IBM material and blogs, such as Cognitive Solution,
IBM Cloud, API Connect, and Docker Container.
Sanjay Singh is a senior Software Engineer. He has worked
on various cloud products over 11 years of his career with IBM.
As a technical consultant and Lab Advocate he has been
engaged with customers in making their Cloud Adoption and
implementation successful. He has lead adoption of IBM Cloud
Private in one of the largest Telecom providers in India over
eight months of engagement. His core experience is in
Kubernetes, Openstack, AWS, Node.JS, JavaScript, Python,
and Scripting. He holds a Btech degree in Computer Science
from NIT Trichy (India).
Preface
xiii