
Other Litigation
maximum amount or limited period. A total of $18 mil-
lion has been accrued in the consolidated balance sheet
We become involved in various other claims and liti-
relating to this type of indemnification or guarantee
gation as a part of our business.
at December 31, 2004.
While we cannot predict the final outcome of claims
and litigation that were pending at December 31,
Sales of Services
2004, based on information currently available, man-
In transactions involving sales of services, we may be
agement believes that the resolution of these claims
required to pay counterparties for costs and losses
and litigation will not have a material and negative
incurred as a result of:
effect on our consolidated financial position or results
breaches of representations and warranties
of operations.
changes in, or in the interpretation of, laws and
regulations (including tax legislation). or
Note 25: Guarantees
litigation against the counterparties.
Some of the agreements specify a maximum potential
As a regular part of our business, we enter into agree-
exposure of $305 million, but many do not specify a
ments that provide for indemnifications and guarantees
maximum amount or limited period. No amount has
to counterparties that may require us to pay for costs
been accrued in the consolidated balance sheet relating
and losses incurred in various types of transactions.
to this type of indemnification or guarantee at Decem-
We cannot reasonably estimate the maximum potential
ber 31, 2004.
amount we could be required to pay counterparties.
While some of the agreements specify a maximum
potential exposure, many do not specify a maximum
Purchases and Development of Assets
amount or limited period. The amount also depends
In transactions involving purchases and development
on the outcome of future events and conditions, which
of assets, we may be required to pay counterparties for
cannot be predicted. Historically, we have not made
costs and losses incurred as a result of breaches of:
any significant payments under these indemnifications
representations and warranties
or guarantees.
loss or damages to property
changes in, or in the interpretation of, laws and
Sales of Assets and Businesses
regulations (including tax legislation), or
litigation against the counterparties.
In transactions involving business dispositions and
sales of assets, we may be required to pay counterparties
Some of the agreements specify a maximum potential
for costs and losses incurred as a result of various events.
exposure of $1.5 billion, but many do not specify
These could include:
a maximum amount or limited period. No amount
breaches of representations and warranties
has been accrued in the consolidated balance sheet
intellectual property rights infringement
relating to this type of indemnification or guarantee at
loss or damages to property
December 31, 2004.
environmental liabilities
changes in, or in the interpretation of, laws and
regulations (including tax legislation)
Other Transactions
valuation differences
As part of other transactions, such as securitization
litigation against the counterparties
agreements and operating leases, we may be required
earn-out guarantees if the disposed business does not
to pay counterparties for costs and losses incurred as
meet specific targets
a result of:
contingent liabilities of a disposed business, or
breaches of representations and warranties
reassessments of previous tax filings of the corpora-
loss or damages to property
tion that carries on the business.
changes in, or in the interpretation of. laws and
regulations (including tax legislation), or
Some of the agreements specify a maximum potential
litigation against the counterparties.
exposure of $2 billion, but many do not specify a
Bell Canada Enterprises 2004 Annual Report 117