
pile regulator and the three-unit regulator. Each of these
units controls field current using a type of variable resistor.
Controlling field current then controls generator output. A
simplified generator control circuit is shown in Figure 9-57.
Carbon Pile Regulators
The carbon pile regulator controls DC generator output by
sending the field current through a stack of carbon disks
(the carbon pile). The carbon disks are in series with the
generator field. If the resistance of the disks increases,
the field current decreases and the generator output goes
down. If the resistance of the disks decreases, the field
current increases and generator output goes up. As seen
in Figure 9-58, a voltage coil is installed in parallel with
the generator output leads. The voltage coil acts like an
electromagnet that increases or decrease strength as generator
output voltage changes. The magnetism of the voltage coil
Lowers
controls the pressure on the carbon stack. The pressure on
the carbon stack controls the resistance of the carbon; the
resistance of the carbon controls field current and the field
current controls generator output.
Carbon pile regulators require regular maintenance to ensure
accurate voltage regulation; therefore, most have been
replaced on aircraft with more modern systems.
Figure 9-56. Generator control unit (GCU).
Generator output to electrical loads
In general, modern GCUs for high-output generators employ
solid-state electronic circuits to sense the operations of the
Generator
generator or starter-generator. The circuitry then controls a
Field circuit
control
series of relays and/or solenoids to connect and disconnect the
unit to various distribution buses. One unit found in almost
all voltage regulation circuitry is the zener diode. The zener
Armature
diode is a voltage sensitive device that is used to monitor
system voltage. The zener diode, connected in conjunction
to the GCU circuitry, then controls the field current, which
Field winding
in turn controls the generator output.
Generator Controls for Low-Output Generators
Figure 9-57. Voltage regulator for low-output generator.
A typical generator control circuit for low-output generators
modifies current flow to the generator field to control
generator output power. As flight variables and electrical
loads change, the GCU must monitor the electrical system and
make the appropriate adjustments to ensure proper system
voltage and current. The typical generator control is referred
Voltage coil
to as a voltage regulator or a GCU.
Armature
Since most low-output generators are found on older aircraft,
the control systems for these systems are electromechanical
Carbon stack
devices. (Solid-state units are found on more modern aircraft
Field
that employ DC alternators and not DC generators.) The
two most common types of voltage regulator are the carbon
Figure 9-58. Carbon pile regulator.
9-36