
2
After providing general results in Sec. III we limit our
attention to symmetric initial conditions and potentials
where the tagged particle has no average drift. A general
relation between the mean square displacement of the
tagged particle and reflection probability of the non inter-
acting particle is given in Eq. (37). Detailed calculations
of the mean square displacement of the tagged particle
then follow. for special choices of force fields and initial
conditions, in Sec. As we discuss in sub-section III D
in certain limits our problem is related to order statistics
37|, a fact worth mentioning since it allows us to solve
t
our problem and related ones using known methods. In
Sec. [V] we discuss non-Brownian kinds of motion and
the Percus relation. A brief report of part of our results
was recently published 21
II.
MODEL AND METHODS
-2
-1
O
1
2
In our model, 2N+1 identical point particles with hard
core particle-particle interactions are undergoing Brow-
nian motion in one dimension, so particles cannot pass
FIG. 1: Schematic motion of Brownian particles in a box.
each other. The diffusion constant of particles free of
where particles cannot penetrate through each other. The
interaction is D. As mentioned, towards the end of the
center tagged particle label is O. its trajectory is restricted by
paper we discuss the more general case where the dynam-
collisions with neighboring particles. The straight line is the
ics between collision events is not necessarily Brownian
Jepsen line. it follows ut as explained in the text. As explained
An external potential V(x) acts on the particles. The
in the text. in an equivalent non-interacting picture, we allow
system stretches from -I to T: however, unless stated
particles to pass through each other, and at time t we search
otherwise we will let I - 8 and obtain a thermody-
for the position of the particle which has N particles to its
namic limit where N/L is fixed. We tag the center parti-
right and N to its left (i.e. the center particle).
cle, which clearly has N particles to its left and N to
it right. Initially the tagged particle is at the origin
T - O. The motion of a single particle in the absence of
the label of the interacting particles (see Fig. ID. The
interactions with other particles is described by a single
tagged particle whose coordinate is denoted with cr(t),
particle Green function g(x, TO. t), with the initial condi-
is the center particle j = 0 (bold line in Fig. ID Initially
tions g(x, TO. 0) = 8(x-xo). - In the case of over damped
the tagged particle is at the origin TO = O. Since
Brownian motion the Green function is the solution of
particles do not pass each other, their order is clearly
the Fokker-Planck equation 38
maintained, and the number of particles to the left and
right of the tagged particle N is fixed.
dg(x.xo.t) at - D dx2 g(x,xo,t), (1)
In Fig. the straight line which starts at a - O is
called the Jepsen line and follows x(t) - vt. where v is
a test velocity We label the interacting particles
where F(x) - V'(x) is the force field, T is the tem-
according to their initial position, increasing to the right
perature and ky is Boltzmann's constant The initial
(see Fig. [I]. The tagged particle starts just to the right
conditions of N particles residing initially to the right
of the Jepsen line so at t - 0 the label of the particle
(left) of the test particle are drawn from the probability
to the right of the Jepsen line is zero. In this system
density function (PDF) fR(xo) (fL(xo)) respectively. We
we have 2N + 1 particles. Hence initially we have N
consider an ensemble of trajectories and average over tra-
particles to the left of the Jepsen line and including the
jectories and initial conditions (see details below). Our
tagged particle N + 1 particles to the right.
goal is to obtain the PDF of the position IT of the tagged
Let (t) be the label number of the first particle sit-
center particle P(xT) in the large N limit.
uated to the right of the Jepsen line. According to our
rules, at t = 0 we have = 0, and then the random
variable will increase or decrease in steps of +1 or
A. The Jepsen Line
according to:
i) if a particle crosses the Jepsen line from left to right
A schematic diagram of the problem is presented in
O
Fig. for particles in a box. Initial positions of particles
ii) if a particle crosses the Jepsen line from right to left
are given by where j = -
N.
O.
N where j is
+ 1. Thus the counter is performing a ran-