
Management's Discussion and Analysis (cont'd)
8.8 ACQUISITIONS
As a result of the volatile capital markets and the resulting
widespread drop in public issuer valuations in the latter part
Senior management accountability:
of 2008, our defined benefit pension plans have experienced
Henry Demone, President and Chief Executive Officer
losses. However, the capital markets improved in 2010 and
2011, reducing the losses. The actuarial valuation of our
Board oversight accountability: Board of Directors
largest defined benefit pension plan was as of September
2008 and showed a going concern surplus and a small
Our strategy considers growth by acquisition. The Company
solvency deficit that will be funded over five years. The
may not be able to carry out its strategy of acquisition of
next actuarial valuation is due to be effective no later
other frozen seafood companies, as that depends in part
on the availability of suitable candidates. In addition, the
than September 2011 and in the process of being compiled
for filing no later than September 2012. We anticipate
Company may face competition for the acquisition of
the required annual contributions after the valuation is
attractive processors from other consolidators in the frozen
completed will increase by more than $1.0 million. As well,
food industry who may be larger or better financed than the
our move to IFRS for accounting purposes has crystallized
Company. Our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions
these losses in retained earnings, thereby enabling us to
into our existing operations could affect our financial results
exclude them from income. Late in 2009, we changed the
We may seek to expand our business through acquisitions
asset mix of our defined benefit pension plans with the
and may divest underperforming or non-core businesses
objective of reducing the volatility of the plan's anticipated
Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify
funded position. This has resulted in investing part of the
such acquisition and divestiture opportunities and to
portfolio in fixed income assets with a duration similar to
negotiate favourable contractual terms. The failure to obtain
that of the pension obligations.
proper regulatory approvals could adversely affect our
growth strategy.
8.10 SUSTAINABILITY. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
AND PUBLIC OPINION
8.9 LIQUIDITY
Senior management accountability:
Senior management accountability:
Henry Demone, President and Chief Executive Officer
Kelly Nelson, Executive Vice President, CFO & Secretary
Board oversight accountability: Board of Directors
Board oversight accountability: Audit Committee
As discussed in Section 1.3 of this document, we have
Our primary sources of working capital are cash flows from
publicly announced that we will source all of our seafood
operations and borrowings under our credit facilities We
from certified sustainable or responsible fisheries and
actively manage our relationships with our lenders and
aquaculture farms by the end of 2013. We will require the
have in place adequate credit facilities until December 2016
seafood we purchase be certified by the Marine Stewardship
when the working capital revolver facilities are scheduled to
Council (MSC), the Global Aquaculture Alliance's (GAA) Best
be renewed
Aquaculture Practices (BAP) program or the Aquaculture
We monitor risk of a shortage of funds using a detailed
Certification Council or under some other acceptable regime.
budgeting process that identifies financing needs for the next
Major customers in all areas of the Company's business are
12 months as well as models that look out 5 years. Working
requiring that seafood purchased by them will need to be
capital requirements are monitored daily and a procurement
certified as coming from a sustainable fish resource or from
system provides information on commitments This process
aquaculture farms that adhere to acceptable sustainability
projects cash flows from operations. Our objective is to
practices. In 2011, approximately 55% of our wild-caught
maintain a balance between continuity of funding and
seafood and 68% of our aquaculture purchases came from
flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts, letters of credit,
certified fisheries, representing substantial increases
bank loans, notes payable, and finance leases. Our objective is
over 2010.
that not more than 50% of borrowings should mature in the
next 12-month period. Less than 11% of our long-term debt
We made sustainability a strategic goal for 2010 and 2011 and
will mature in less than one year at December 31, 2011 based
have added dedicated resources at the senior level to develop
on the carrying value of borrowings reflected in the financial
the sustainability plan for the company. In the long term
statements. Our long-term debt is described in Note 13 of
sustainability will need to include policies on green issues
our financial statements and has annual required minimum
such as energy consumption, packaging, and the like. It will
principal payments of US$2.5 million plus, beginning in 2013,
also involve our human resources practices and policies.
50% of the prior year's defined free cash flow. At December 31,
2011 and at the date of this document, we are in compliance
with all covenants and terms of our banking facilities.
ANNUAL REPORT 2011
47