
indicated on the attitude indicator is resulting in level flight
as shown on the altimeter, VSI, and ASI. If the miniature
aircraft of the attitude indicator is properly adjusted on the
ground before takeoff, it shows approximately level flight at
normal cruise speed when the pilot completes the level off
from a climb. If further adjustment of the miniature aircraft
is necessary, the other pitch instruments must be used to
maintain level flight while the adjustment is made.
To practice pitch control for level flight using only the
10
attitude indicator. use the following exercise. Restrict the
20
displacement of the horizon bar to a one-half bar width. a
bar width up or down, then a one-and-one-half bar width.
One-half. one, and one-and-one-half bar width nose-high
attitudes are shown in Figures 7-4, 7-5, and 7-6.
Figure 7-6. Pitch correction for level flight, one-and-one-half
bar width.
Pitch attitude changes for corrections to level flight by
reference to instruments are much smaller than those
commonly used for visual flight. With the airplane correctly
trimmed for level flight. the elevator displacement and the
control pressures necessary to effect these standard pitch
changes are usually very slight. The following are a few
10
helpful hints to help determine how much elevator control
20-
20
pressure is required.
First, a tight grip on the controls makes it difficult to feel
control pressure changes. Relaxing and learning to control
the aircraft usually takes considerable conscious effort during
the early stages of instrument training.
Figure 7-4. Pitch correction for level flight. one-half bar width.
Second, make smooth and small pitch changes with positive
pressure. With practice, a pilot can make these small pitch
corrections up or down. "freezing" (holding constant) the
one-half. full, and one-and-one-half bar widths on the
attitude indicator.
Third, with the airplane properly trimmed for level flight.
momentarily release all pressure on the elevator control
when becoming aware of tenseness This is a reminder that
10
10
the airplane is stable: except under turbulent conditions, it
20-
20
maintains level flight if left alone. Even when no control
change is called for, it is difficult to resist the impulse to
move the controls. This may be one of the most difficult
initial training problems in instrument flight.
Altimeter
Figure 7-5. Pitch correction for level flight, one bar width.
At constant power, any deviation from level flight (except
in turbulent air) is the result of a pitch change. Therefore,
An instructor pilot can demonstrate these normal pitch
the altimeter gives an indirect indication of the pitch attitude
corrections and compare the indications on the attitude
in level flight, assuming constant power. Since the altitude
indicator with the airplane's position to the natural horizon.
7-3