
39
Senior Management
Senior
Management
Kingsgate's executives have a comprehensive
Tim Benfield
Joel Forwood
range of skills and experience including mine
Dip CSM (mining). MBA MAusIMM
Bsc (Hons) FFin
development and operations, exploration, finance
and administration They are supported by highly
qualified specialists, whose backgrounds cover
Chief Operating Officer
General Manager Corporate and Markets
the full scope of mining resources activities.
Tim Benfield joined Kingsgate in February 2012
Joel Forwood joined Kingsgate in November
as Chief Operating Officer. Tim is a mining
2010 and has over 27 years experience in the
Senior members of Kingsgate's management
engineer with over 21 years underground and
resource and investment industries covering
team are:
open pit experience in the mining industry in
investor relations, funds management and
both operational and corporate roles. He has
exploration. For over 12 years, he has been
operational and project development experience
leading investor relations at a number of listed
Gavin Thomas
in Australia, Africa and Saudi Arabia. This
companies, most recently for Libir Gold Limited
BSc (Geology). FAusIMM
includes 10 years with Barrick Gold of Australia
Prior to this he was a fund manager with
where he provided support to four operating
Queensland Investment Corporation (QIC)
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
mines and two development projects. Tim was
following his early career in mineral exploration
most recently General Manager of the Pajingo
with BHP and corporate development with RCC.
Gavin Thomas was appointed Chief Executive
Gold mine in Queensland for Evolution Mining
Officer of Kingsgate in 2004 and joined the
Limited
Kingsgate Board on 16th November 2007. Gavin
has had a successful career in developing mining
companies from the exploration phase into
Ross Coyle
Ronald James
mid-tier gold or copper producers He has over
BSc (Geology). MAusIMM MAIG
42 years of international experience in exploring
BA FCPA, FCIS
for, evaluating developing, operating and
reclaiming mines in North and South America,
General Manager Finance and Administration
General Manager Exploration and Resource
Australia, the Southwest Pacific, Asia and
Company Secretary
Development
Europe. Amongst Gavin's credits is the discovery
Ross Coyle joined Kingsgate in March 2011
Ron James has 30 years of experience in explora-
of "Lihir" in Papua New Guinea, one of the
largest gold deposits in the world. In particular,
following the Company's acquisition of Dominion
tion and mining at management level inclusive
he has extensive experience in Thailand and
Mining Limited and was with the Dominion
of setting up gold mines and exploration
South America
group for over 25 years. He is a qualified
projects from their earliest stages through to
accountant and has over 30 years experience in
development and sustainability Before joining
finance and accounting within the resource
Kingsgate, he was Chief Mine Geologist at the
industry. He was Finance Director of Dominion
Gold Ridge Mine in the Solomon Islands and
Duane Woodbury
from 1996. Ross was appointed Kingsgate's
later Group Exploration Manager for Ross Mining
BEc (Hons)
Company Secretary in September 2011.
NL. Ron is familiar with the technical and oper-
ating requirements for emerging projects in a
variety of terrains and environments and has a
Chief Financial Officer
strong focus on maximising returns from ore
Duane Woodbury was appointed Chief Financial
bodies through optimum waste and ore classifi-
Officer of Kingsgate on 1 September 2011.
cation as well as increasing reserves from near-
Duane has a BEc (Hons) Degree and has worked
mine resource development
in various financial, accounting and advisory
roles during his career in a number of locations,
including London, New York and Singapore He
has been assisting Kingsgate in its business
development initiatives since August 2007 and
brings over 20 years of experience in financial
markets and corporate finance transactions,
principally with the Macquarie Group.
continued